Medically unexplained symptoms (MUS) are extremely common in general practice as in all medical specialties, but their designation is not unambiguous and the approaches to take care of the patients differ from conventional therapeutic approaches. The difficulty is not to confirm the diagnosis, which is rapidly obvious with some experience, but to establish a genuinely human therapeutic relationship, without any technical help, which pushes the doctor to the edge of his empathy and communication skills. The discomfort or even distress regularly encountered by physicians in front of a patient with MUS shows that the foundations of the doctor-patient relationship under uncertainty are poorly mastered. Patients with MUS are regularly abused by the doctors, who unwittingly participate in the maintenance of their symptoms and even freeze them, leading to disastrous psychosocial and economic consequences. Yet the doctor-patient relationship is the key to their recovery or, at least, their improvement. The means of a successful patient-centered relationship are not always intuitive but can be learned. It is therefore essential to include SMI in medical school curricula and post-graduate medical education. Finally, if the management of early MUS mainly concerns the family medicine, that of severe MUS, including some fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue syndromes, falls within the scope of the internist doctor, who should be able to deliver a comprehensive care in partnership with the general practitioner and possibly a psychiatrist.
Background Little current evidence documents how internal medicine residents spend their time at work, particularly with regard to the proportions of time spent in direct patient care versus using computers.   Objective To describe how residents allocate their time during day and evening hospital shifts.   Design Time and motion study.   Setting Internal medicine residency at a university hospital in Switzerland, May to July 2015.   Participants 36 internal medicine residents with an average of 29 months of postgraduate training.   Measurements Trained observers recorded the residents' activities using a tablet-based application. Twenty-two activities were categorized as directly related to patients, indirectly related to patients, communication, academic, nonmedical tasks, and transition. In addition, the presence of a patient or colleague and use of a computer or telephone during each activity was recorded.   Results Residents were observed for a total of 696.7 hours. Day shifts lasted 11.6 hours (1.6 hours more than scheduled). During these shifts, activities indirectly related to patients accounted for 52.4% of the time, and activities directly related to patients accounted for 28.0%. Residents spent an average of 1.7 hours with patients, 5.2 hours using computers, and 13 minutes doing both. Time spent using a computer was scattered throughout the day, with the heaviest use after 6:00 p.m.   Limitation The study involved a small sample from 1 institution.   Conclusion At this Swiss teaching hospital, internal medicine residents spent more time at work than scheduled. Activities indirectly related to patients predominated, and about half the workday was spent using a computer.   Primary Funding Source Information Technology Department and Department of Internal Medicine of Lausanne University Hospital.
PROBLEM Health disparities are pervasive worldwide. Physicians have a unique vantage point from which they can observe the ways social, economic, and political factors impact health outcomes and can be effective advocates for enhanced health outcomes and health equity. However, social medicine and health advocacy curricula are uncommon in postgraduate medical education.   APPROACH In academic year (AY) 2012, the Cambridge Health Alliance internal medicine residency program transformed an elective into a required social medicine and research-based health advocacy curriculum. The course has three major innovations: it has a yearlong longitudinal curriculum, it is required for all residents, and all residents complete a group research-based health advocacy project within the curricular year. The authors describe the structure, content, and goals of this curriculum.   OUTCOMES Over the last four years (AYs 2012-2015), residents (17/32; 53%) have rated the overall quality of the course highly (mean = 5.2, where 6 = outstanding; standard deviation = 0.64). In each year since the new course has been implemented, all scholarly work from the course has been presented at conferences by 31 resident presenters and/or coauthors. The course seems to enhance the residency program's capacity to recruit high-caliber residents and faculty members.   NEXT STEPS The authors are collecting qualitative and quantitative data on the impact of the course. They will use their findings to advocate for a national health advocacy competency framework. Recommendations about how to initiate or further develop social medicine and health advocacy curricula are offered.
BACKGROUND Existing theories of self-directed learning (SDL) have emphasized the importance of process, personal, and contextual factors. Previous medical education research has largely focused on the process of SDL. We explored the experience with and perception of SDL among internal medicine residents to gain understanding of the personal and contextual factors of SDL in graduate medical education.   METHODS Using a constructivist혻grounded theory approach, we conducted 7 focus group interviews with 46 internal medicine residents at an academic medical center. We processed the data by using open coding and writing analytic memos. Team members organized open codes to create axial codes, which were applied to all transcripts. Guided by a previous model of SDL, we developed a theoretical model that was revised through constant comparison with new data as they were collected, and we refined the theory until it had adequate explanatory power and was appropriately grounded in the experiences of residents.   RESULTS We developed a theoretical model of SDL to explain the process, personal, and contextual factors affecting SDL during residency training. The process of SDL began with a trigger that uncovered a knowledge gap. Residents progressed to formulating learning objectives, using resources, applying knowledge, and evaluating learning. Personal factors included motivations, individual characteristics, and the change in approach to SDL over time. Contextual factors included the need for external guidance, the influence of residency program structure and culture, and the presence of contextual barriers.   CONCLUSIONS We developed a theoretical model of SDL in medical education that can be used to promote and assess resident SDL through understanding the process, person, and context of SDL.
The basis of the highly effective method for diagnostics of many dangerous diseases with the use of breathing tests and stable 13C isotope-labeled preparations has been developed in Russia during the past years. The technology for manufacturing 13C-preparations using domestically produced starting materials satisfies the requirements for isotopes in this and many foreign countries. New instruments for respiratory tests and diagnostic methods make it possible to carry out diagnostics in large populations including that in the course of regular medical examination. This paper reports high efficacy of 13C-based breath tests for diagnostics of gastrointestinal disorders, possibilities and prospects for their further application in oncology, endocrinology, pulmonology, neurology, cardiology, surgery, etc. Special attention is given to the use of 13C-magnetic resonance techniques for visualization of tumours and blood vessels, studies of metabolic processes and energy balance in man and animals with the use of 13C-biomarkers. The main advantages of these new diagnostic approaches are high accuracy, safety (for both patients and personnel), simplicity, and possibility of application in different fields of medicine.
PROBLEM The goal of teaching professionalism in medicine is to transform a theoretical concept into an internalized and actualized identity. Many trainees struggle with professionalism in the abstract, particularly when instruction methods are didactic and disconnected from personal experience.   APPROACH The authors aim to demonstrate the feasibility of having interns frame a personal definition of professionalism based on a reflective technique called 'beginning with the end in mind.' Interns composed remarks that might be used to introduce them at their own retirement ceremony following a career in medicine. This 'career eulogies' exercise was introduced to groups of six interns during the first third of the internship year as part of a two-week curriculum focused on professional development. Two investigators independently coded the written introductions, identifying emergent themes through content analysis.   OUTCOMES Of the 19 interns in an internal medicine residency program (2012-13), 17 participated in the exercise. Six themes emerged from the data: aligning behaviors with core values, achieving excellence in medicine, changing the world and giving back, valuing teamwork and relationships, realizing work-life balance, and appreciating a career in medicine. These themes correlate with accepted published definitions of professionalism.   NEXT STEPS The personal reflections produced through this exercise allow physicians to begin to formulate their professional self-conception. Extensions of this work might include linking such forms of critical reflection to individualized learning plans and updating the speeches over time. Further research on 'reflecting forward' may determine its impact as a complement to traditional narrative reflection.
PURPOSE Patient satisfaction has been recognized as an important variable affecting healthcare behavior. However, there are limited data on the relationship between doctor post-graduate year (PGY) status and patient satisfaction with provider interpersonal skills and humanistic qualities. The authors aims to assess this relationship using an American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) questionnaire.   DESIGN/METHODOLOGY/APPROACH Participants were: patients attending a primary care clinic at a large urban academic hospital; and physicians treating them. The survey questionnaire was the ABIM patient satisfaction instrument; ten questions pertaining to humanistic qualities and communication skills with responses from poor to excellent. Mann Whitney U test and multi-variable logistic regression analyses were used to explore score differences by PGY level.   FINDINGS The postgraduate year one (PGY1) had higher patient-satisfaction levels compared to PGY2/PGY3 residents. The PGY1 level residents were more likely to score in the 90th percentile and this remained constant even after adjusting for confounders.   RESEARCH LIMITATIONS/IMPLICATIONS The research was a single-center study and may have been subject to confounding factors such as patient personality types and a survey ceiling effect. The survey's cross-sectional nature may also be a potential limitation. Practical implications - Patient satisfaction varies significantly with PGY status. Though clinical skills may improve with increasing experience, findings imply that interpersonal and humanistic qualities may deteriorate.   ORIGINALITY/VALUE The study is the first to assess patient satisfaction with PGY status and provides evidence that advanced trainees may need support to keep their communication skills and humanistic qualities from deteriorating as stressors increase to ensure optimal patient satisfaction.
PURPOSE The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate burnout syndrome among internal medicine and pediatrics residents in a country that does not have the working time directive (WTD) and also to determine the risk factors and consequent impact on efficient functioning in clinical areas.   DESIGN/METHODOLOGY/APPROACH A 57-item questionnaire was given to internal medicine and pediatrics residents. Responses from 22 pediatrics and 33 internal medicine residents were evaluated.   FINDINGS Demographic findings, burnout scores, having hobbies, social activities and reading books unrelated to medicine were similar between the two groups. Six pediatrics residents (27.3 per cent) and 11 (33.3 per cent) internal medicine residents met the criteria for clinically significant burnout. Personal accomplishment scores and reading books unrelated to medicine were found to be related to burnout.   ORIGINALITY/VALUE Burnout is a syndrome characterized by depersonalization, emotional exhaustion and a low sense of personal accomplishment. It is important to document burnout in countries where WTDs are not implemented. Further studies might demonstrate burnout's effect on patient safety, service quality and physician's performance.
The experience with organization of the teaching process at the Department ofPropedeutics of Internal Diseases is reported. The role of the rating system for knowledge and skill control is discussed along with the possibilities of its application for the improvement of training students in compliance with the Bologna process principles and their integration into the education system.
Retirement of obstetrician-gynecologists is becoming a matter of increasing concern in light of an expected shortage of practicing physicians. Determining a retirement age is often complex. We address what constitutes a usual retirement age range from general clinical practice for an obstetrician-gynecologist, compare this with practitioners in other specialties, and suggest factors of importance to obstetrician-gynecologists before retirement. Although the proportion of obstetrician-gynecologists 55 years old is similar to other specialists, obstetrician-gynecologists retire at younger ages than male or female physicians in other specialties. A customary age range of retirement from obstetrician-gynecologist practice would be 59-69 years (median, 64 years). Women, who constitute a growing proportion of obstetrician-gynecologists in practice, retire earlier than men. The large cohort of 'baby boomer' physicians who are approaching retirement (approximately 15,000 obstetrician-gynecologists) deserves tracking while an investigation of integrated women's health care delivery models is conducted. Relevant considerations would include strategies to extend the work longevity of those who are considering early retirement or desiring part-time employment. Likewise volunteer work in underserved community clinics or teaching medical students and residents offers continuing personal satisfaction for many retirees and preservation of self-esteem and medical knowledge.
BACKGROUND PIDs are a heterogeneous group of genetic illnesses, and delay in their diagnosis is thought to be caused by a lack of awareness among physicians concerning PIDs. The latter is what we aimed to evaluate in Brazil.   METHODS Physicians working at general hospitals all over the country were asked to complete a 14-item questionnaire. One of the questions described 25 clinical situations that could be associated with PIDs and a score was created based on percentages of appropriate answers.   RESULTS A total of 4026 physicians participated in the study: 1628 paediatricians (40.4%), 1436 clinicians (35.7%), and 962 surgeons (23.9%). About 67% of the physicians had learned about PIDs in medical school or residency training, 84.6% evaluated patients who frequently took antibiotics, but only 40.3% of them participated in the immunological evaluation of these patients. Seventy-seven percent of the participating physicians were not familiar with the warning signs for PIDs. The mean score of correct answers for the 25 clinical situations was 48.08% (짹16.06). Only 18.3% of the paediatricians, 7.4% of the clinicians, and 5.8% of the surgeons answered at least 2/3 of these situations appropriately.   CONCLUSIONS There is a lack of medical awareness concerning PIDs, even among paediatricians, who have been targeted with PID educational programmes in recent years in Brazil. An increase in awareness with regard to these disorders within the medical community is an important step towards improving recognition and treatment of PIDs.
The authors discuss I.V. Davydovsky's views expounded in his book 'Problems of causality in medicine, Etiology' (1962) where the philosophical method was applied for the first time for the solution of fundamental problems of medicine, such as etiology and pathogenesis. The main provisions of Davydovsky's concept of etiology of internal organ diseases are considered, an attempt is undertaken to develop and apply them in the present-day context.
INTRODUCTION Understanding clinical reasoning is essential for patient care and medical education. Dual-processing theory suggests that nonanalytic reasoning is an essential aspect of expertise; however, assessing nonanalytic reasoning is challenging because it is believed to occur on the subconscious level. This assumption makes concurrent verbal protocols less reliable assessment tools.   METHODS Functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to explore the neural basis of nonanalytic reasoning in internal medicine interns (novices) and board-certified staff internists (experts) while completing United States Medical Licensing Examination and American Board of Internal Medicine multiple-choice questions.   RESULTS The results demonstrated that novices and experts share a common neural network in addition to nonoverlapping neural resources. However, experts manifested greater neural processing efficiency in regions such as the prefrontal cortex during nonanalytical reasoning.   CONCLUSIONS These findings reveal a multinetwork system that supports the dual-process mode of expert clinical reasoning during medical evaluation.
BACKGROUND Interest in primary care careers has been dwindling among medical trainees over the past decade, with poor quality of life among the perceived disadvantages. We sought to evaluate factors influencing career satisfaction among graduates of Brown's General Internal Medicine (GIM)/Primary Care residency program and assess its contribution to the primary care work force.   METHODS Using an anonymous online survey, we queried GIM alumni from 1981-2012 to obtain information about demographics, job characteristics and career satisfaction measures.   RESULTS Fifty-nine percent of Brown's GIM/Primary Care residency graduates practice primary care, a rate higher than most primary care track programs. Seventy-six percent of respondents were 'satisfied' or 'very satisfied' with their current jobs. Career satisfaction correlated with self-rating of physical and emotional health and did not correlate with age, gender, income, debt burden, or practice setting.   CONCLUSION Among the diverse factors associated with attaining career satisfaction, attention to personal health plays a central role.
PURPOSE To explore the relationship between United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) Step 1 scores, yearly in-service training exam (ITE) scores, and passing the American Board of Internal Medicine certifying examination (ABIM-CE).   METHOD The authors conducted a retrospective database review of internal medicine residents from the Medical College of Wisconsin from 2004 through 2012. Residents' USMLE Step 1, ITE, and ABIM-CE scores were extracted. Pearson rho, chi-square, and logistic regression were used to determine whether relationships existed between the scores and if Step 1 and ITE scores correlate with passing the ABIM-CE.   RESULTS There were 241 residents, who participated in 728 annual ITEs. There were Step 1 scores for 195 (81%) residents and ABIM-CE scores for 183 (76%). Step 1 and ABIM-CE scores had a modest correlation (rho: 0.59), as did ITE and ABIM-CE scores (rho: 0.48-0.67). Failing Step 1 or being in the bottom ITE quartile during any year of testing markedly increased likelihood of failing the boards (Step 1: relative risk [RR]: 2.4; 95% CI: 1.0-5.9; first-year residents' RR: 1.3; 95% CI: 1.0-1.6; second-year residents' RR: 1.3; 95% CI: 1.1-1.5; third-year residents' RR: 1.3; 95% CI: 1.1-1.5).   CONCLUSIONS USMLE Step 1 and ITE scores have a modest correlation with board scores. Failing Step 1 or scoring in the bottom quartile of the ITE increased the risk of failing the boards. What effective intervention, if any, program directors may use with at-risk residents is a question deserving further research.
PURPOSE The study explored optimal intraprofessional collaboration between physicians in the emergency department (ED) and those from general internal medicine (GIM). Prior to the study, a policy was initiated that mandated reductions in ED wait times. The researchers examined the impact of these changes on clinical practice and trainee education.   METHOD In 2010-2011, an ethnographic study was undertaken to observe consults between GIM and ED at an urban teaching hospital in Ontario, Canada. Additional ad hoc interviews were conducted with residents, nurses, and faculty from both departments as well as formal one-on-one interviews with 12 physicians. Data were coded and analyzed using concepts of institutional ethnography.   RESULTS Participants perceived that efficiency was more important than education and was in fact the new definition of 'good' patient care. The informal label 'failure to cope' to describe high-needs patients suggested that in many instances, patients were experienced as a barrier to optimal efficiency. This resulted in tension during consults as well as reduced opportunities for education.   CONCLUSIONS The authors suggest that the emphasis on wait times resulted in more importance being placed on 'getting the patient out' of the ED than on providing safe, compassionate, person-centered medical care. Resource constraints were hidden within a discourse that shifted the problem of overcrowding in the ED to patients with complex chronic conditions. The term 'failure to cope' became activated when overworked physicians tried to avoid assuming care for high-needs patients, masking institutionally produced stress and possibly altering the way patients are perceived.
The 2014 National Residency Matching Program짰 results reveal that the number of family medicine positions offered in the Match짰 by programs accredited by the Accreditation Council on Graduate Medical Education has increased compared to 2013 (3,132 versus 3,062), while the total of all other primary care specialties combined has remained unchanged (784). The number of US seniors matching into family medicine also increased in 2014 over the prior year (1,416 versus 1,374). The percentage of US seniors who matched into family medicine programs grew modestly in 2014 compared to 2013 (8.6% versus 8.4%). Approximately four out of five primary care positions offered in the Match are in family medicine residency programs (3,132 versus 784). Similarly, three out of four US seniors matching into a primary care specialty match into a family medicine program (1,416 versus 520). By way of comparison, nearly five times the number of US seniors matched into family medicine as compared to medicine-pediatrics, the next largest primary care specialty.
Thrombocytopenia is frequent in hospitalized patients, and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is often suspected when a decrease in platelet count is concomitant with heparin treatment. ELISA tests used for anti-PF4/heparin antibodies detection usually have high sensitivity but only fair specificity for HIT. Pre-test probability scores (such as 4 Ts or HEP scores) have been validated and a low probability score rules out HIT without anti-PF4/heparin testing. The aims of this study are to evaluate the appropriateness of anti-PF4/heparin testing according to pre-test probabilities of HIT and to compare the abilities of the 4 Ts and HEP scores to avoid inappropriate anti-PF4/heparin testing. This retrospective observational study included 74 consecutive patients hospitalized in a general internal medicine division who had anti-PF4/heparin testing for suspicion of HIT. 4 Ts and HEP scores were computed retrospectively. About 73% of patients who had ordering of an anti-PF4/heparin were at low risk according to the 4 Ts score, and 46% according to the HEP score. Heparin was discontinued in 61% and 62% of low-risk patients according to 4 Ts and HEP scores and switched to alternative anticoagulant in 31% and 32% of them, respectively. No case of HIT was diagnosed in patients with a low-risk score. One major bleeding and no thrombosis were observed. For the 4 Ts score, the sensitivity was 100%, the negative predictive value (NPV) was 100%, the specificity was 77%, and the positive predictive value (PPV) was 20% (95% CI: 7-44). For the HEP score, the sensitivity was 100%, the NPV was 100%, the specificity was 49%, and the PPV was 10%. In conclusion, pre-test probability scores were vastly underused in this internal medicine population despite their ability to rule out HIT without laboratory testing in a large proportion of patients. Appropriate use of those instruments should be actively promoted.
BACKGROUND Understanding physician perspectives on the intersection of race and genomics in clinical decision making is critical as personalized medicine and genomics become more integrated in health care services. There is a paucity of literature in the United States of America (USA) and globally regarding how health care providers understand and use information about race, ethnicity and genetic variation in their clinical decision making. This paper describes the development of three scales related to addressing this gap in the literature: the Bonham and Sellers Genetic Variation Knowledge Assessment Index--GKAI, Health Professionals Beliefs about Race-HPBR, and Racial Attributes in Clinical Evaluation-RACE scales.   METHODS A cross-sectional, web survey of a national random sample of general internists in the USA (N = 787) was conducted. Confirmatory factor analysis was used to assess the construct validity of the scales. Scale items were developed through focus groups, cognitive interviews, expert advisory panels, and exploratory factor analysis of pilot data.   RESULTS GKAI was measured as a count of correct answers (Mean = 3.28 SD = 1.17). HPBR yielded two domains: beliefs about race as a biological phenomenon (HPBR-BD, alpha = .69, 4 items) and beliefs about the clinical value of race and genetic variation for understanding risk for disease (HPBR-CD alpha = .61, 3 items). RACE yielded one factor (alpha = .86, 7 items).   CONCLUSIONS GKAI is a timely knowledge scale that can be used to assess health professional knowledge of race and human genetic variation. HPBR is a promising new tool for assessing health professionals' beliefs about the role of race and its relationship with human genetic variation in clinical practice. RACE offers a valid and reliable tool for assessing explicit use of racial attributes in clinical decision making.
OBJECTIVE To describe the characteristics of the patients case-mix admitted to ICUs due to medical and surgical disease, and to compare both groups.   DESIGN Analysis of data covering the period 2006-2011 in the ENVIN-HELICS registry. An observational, prospective, multicenter and voluntary participation study.   SETTING A total of 188 Spanish ICUs.   PATIENTS All patients admitted for more than 24 hours.   MAIN VARIABLES Demographic data, cause of admission, severity scores, length of stay, mortality.   RESULTS A total of 138,999 patients were analyzed. Of these, 65,467 (47.1%) were admitted due to a non-coronary medical cause, 27,785 (20,0%) due to coronary-related illness, 28,044 (20,2%) after elective surgery and 17,613 (12.7%) after urgent surgery. Use of devices, nosocomial infections and isolation of multirresistant organisms were more prevalent in urgent surgery patients. Longer length of stay (median 5 days; interquartile range 2-11) as well as higher severity scale values (APACHE II and SAPS II) corresponded to this same group of patients. Mortality was higher in non-coronay medical patients. On categorizing the patients according to the APACHE II score, mortality was seen to be higher in urgent surgery cases than in elective surgery patients in all groups. The largest difference was observed in the APACHE II score 6-10 group (3% vs. 0.9%) (OR: 2.14, 95% CI 1.825-2.513; p<0.001).   CONCLUSIONS The mortality rate is higher in non-coronary medical patients, though resource use per patient is greater in the urgent surgery cases. The APACHE II scale underestimates mortality in emergency surgery patients.
BACKGROUND Although many older adults require skilled nursing facility (SNF) care after acute hospitalization, it is unclear whether internal medicine residents have sufficient knowledge of the care that can be provided at this site.   METHODS We developed a 10-item multiple choice pre-test that assessed knowledge of the definition of a SNF, SNF staffing requirements, and SNF services provided on-site. The test was administered to trainees on the first day of a mandatory SNF rotation that occurred during their first, second or third year of training.   RESULTS Sixty-seven internal medicine residents [41 postgraduate year (PGY)-1, 11 PGY-2, and 15 PGY-3] were assessed with the test. The mean number of questions answered correctly was 4.9, with a standard deviation of 1.6. Regardless of their level of training, residents had a poor baseline knowledge of SNF care (mean scores 4.2 for PGY-1, 5.3 for PGY-2, and 6.3 for PGY-3) (P < .0001). Performance on some questions improved with increased level of training but others did not.   CONCLUSIONS Medical residents have insufficient knowledge about the type of care that can be provided at a SNF and efforts to improve this knowledge are needed to assure proper triage of patients and safe transitions to the SNF.
PURPOSE Few real-world data are available on the frequency and management of pain in Internal Medicine (IM). Aims of our study were to assess the prevalence of pain in IM, and to evaluate the effects on pain management of a standardised educational programme.   MATERIALS AND METHODS The study was performed in 26 IM Units in Italy, with two cross-sectional surveys (PRE phase and POST phase) interspersed with an educational programme. In PRE phase each Centre reviewed the hospital charts of the last 100 consecutive patients hospitalised for any cause. An educational programme was conducted in each Centre by means of the 'outreach visit', a face-to-face meeting between health personnel and a trained external expert. Six months after, each Centre repeated the data collection (POST phase), specular to the PRE.   RESULTS A total of 5200 medical charts were analysed. Pain was documented in 37.5% of the patients. After the educational intervention, the intensity of pain was appropriately assessed in a higher percentage of patients (77.4% vs. 47.8%, p = 0.0001), and it was more frequently monitored during hospitalisation. Qualitative definition of pain (pathogenesis, duration, etc.) increased in POST phase (75.4% vs. 62.7%, p = 0.0001). A 73.3% increase in the use of strong opioids was detected following educational programme.   CONCLUSIONS Pain affects 4 out of 10 patients hospitalised in IM. According to our large real-world study, to implement a standardised one-shot educational programme may persistently improve the attitude of health personnel towards the characterisation and management of pain.
OBJECTIVE To describe the uses of institutional and personal smartphones on General Internal Medicine wards and highlight potential consequences from their use.   METHODS A mixed methods study consisting of both quantitative and qualitative research methods was conducted in General Internal Medicine wards across four academic teaching hospitals in Toronto, Ontario. Participants included medical students, residents, attending physicians and allied health professionals. Data collection consisted of work shadowing observations, semi-structured interviews and surveys.   RESULTS Personal smartphones were used for both clinical communication and non-work-related activities. Clinicians used their personal devices to communicate with their medical teams and with other medical specialties and healthcare professionals. Participants understood the risks associated with communicating confidential health information via their personal smartphones, but appear to favor efficiency over privacy issues. From survey responses, 9 of 23 residents (39%) reported using their personal cell phones to email or text patient information that may have contained patient identifiers. Although some residents were observed using their personal smartphones for non-work-related activities, personal use was infrequent and most residents did not engage in this activity.   CONCLUSION Clinicians are using personal smartphones for work-related purposes on the wards. With the increasing popularity of smartphone devices, it is anticipated that an increasing number of clinicians will use their personal smartphones for clinical work. This trend poses risks to the secure transfer of confidential personal health information and may lead to increased distractions for clinicians.
In order to determine how often internal medicine and family medicine residents performed specific actions related to the geriatric competencies established by the American Geriatrics Society (AGS) when caring for older hospitalized adults, a cross-sectional anonymous survey of residents at the University of North Carolina, University of Washington, Wake Forest University, Duke University, and Emory University was undertaken. Data on frequency of self-reported behaviors were analyzed, with comparisons made for different levels of training, institution, and program. A total of 375 residents responded for an overall response rate of 48%. Residents reported that they often do not demonstrate all of the AGS recommended core competencies when caring for older adults in the hospital setting. Residents report more frequently performing activities that are routinely integrated into hospital systems such as reviewing medication lists, working with an interdisciplinary team, evaluating for inappropriate bladder catheters, and evaluating for pressure ulcers. There were no consistent differences between institutions and only minor differences noted between Family Medicine and Internal Medicine residents. Operationalizing core competencies by integrating them into hospital systems' quality process indicators may prompt more consistent high-quality care and ensure systems support residents' competence.
PURPOSE Clinical reasoning and treatment challenges within the scope of general practice led to the development of an internal medicine assistance line provided by Nantes University Hospital. The primary outcome of this study was to describe callers' profile, their requests and answers provided.   METHODS A prospective, cross-sectional, observational, descriptive study was undertaken. For each call were identified the calling physician, her/his specialty and work setting, the call's object and adequacy, the answer provided, the time needed to connect with the assistance line, the time devoted by the internal medicine physician to provide an answer to the request, and whether the assistance line prevented a visit to the emergency room. Each calling physician was then called back to obtain demographic and professional characteristics, and data relating to the call and to the assistance line.   RESULTS Sixty-three days were analyzed and 276혻calls identified. The 237 identified calling physicians were mainly females (54%, n=93), with a mean age of 46혻years, graduated from Nantes University (65%, n=86), practicing ambulatory general medicine (69%, n=164) in Loire-Atlantique department area (82%, n=176) for a mean duration of 15혻years. Calls were mostly associated with diagnostic challenges (61%, n=166) concerning clinical issues (57%, n=155). A sole telephone advice was the main type of answer provided (56%, n=147) and a visit to the emergency room was prevented for 17% of calls.   CONCLUSION The assistance line activity is adequate with its missions and seems to facilitate patients' healthcare delivery advocating for the development of similar structures in other units. Improvements relating to the information, availability and physicians' training should be considered.
INTRODUCTION The aims of this study were to describe Danish physicians' use of alcohol and drugs, their self-reported assessment of their use of alcohol and drugs, and their management of colleagues with substance use disorder in physician workplaces.   METHODS During the spring of 2014, a nationwide cross-sectional study was conducted as an anonymous, electronic survey among a randomly weighted sample of 1) consultants and practicing specialists, 2) younger physicians (trainees) and 3) general practitioners in Denmark. A total of 4,000 physicians (approx. 1,333 from each group) were sampled and 1,943 responded (49%). The survey included the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test on alcohol use and the Drug Use Disorders Identification Test on drug use and related questions on health and psychological issues.   RESULTS The three groups had an almost equal share of risky alcohol use (comprising hazardous, harmful and dependent use) of 17.2-20.3%. The highest proportion (24%) of risky alcohol use was found for both internal medicine and emergency medicine and the lowest for general practice (16%). Significantly more male physicians (25.1%) than female physicians (14.4%) reported risky alcohol use. Among physicians with risky substance use, 23.1% recognised their risky use.   CONCLUSION The proportion of physicians with a risky use of alcohol and drugs was 19% and 3.0%, respectively. Significantly more male than female physicians reported risky alcohol use. Among physicians with a risky substance use, only one in four recognised this as problematic.
OBJECTIVE This study aimed to evaluate the effects of establishing a Department of General Internal Medicine (DGIM) on the length of hospitalization. We evaluated the length of hospitalization associated with diseases for which full-time specialists were not available and were instead treated by physicians of the DGIM after its establishment.   METHODS A retrospective cohort study was conducted with a review of the subjects' medical records. The subjects included patients 16 years of age who were hospitalized with pneumonia or cerebral infarction and treated by a physician with a specialty in internal medicine as the disease outside their specialty prior to DGIM establishment (October 1, 2006 to September 30, 2008) or by a physician of the DGIM after its establishment (October 1, 2009 to September 30, 2011). The primary outcome was the change in the length of hospitalization. The length of hospitalization for heart failure, which was treated by specialists (cardiologists) in both study periods, was also examined for comparison.   RESULTS We evaluated 322 and 423 cases of pneumonia treated before and after the establishment of the DGIM, as well as 223 and 229 cases of cerebral infarction and 132 and 206 cases of heart failure, respectively. The length of hospitalization before and after establishment of the DGIM was 21.6 and 16.0 days for the pneumonia patients (p<0.001) and 24.2 and 19.9 days for the cerebral infarction patients (p<0.001), respectively. On the other hand, the change in the length of hospitalization for the heart failure patients was not statistically significant (19.9 vs. 17.6 days; p=0.281).   CONCLUSION The establishment of the DGIM reduced the length of hospitalization associated with diseases for which full-time specialists were not available by over 17%.
BACKGROUND e-Health strategies are supposed to improve the performance of national health systems. Medical teleconsultation (MT) is an important component of such e-Health strategies.   OBJECTIVES The outcome of MT was evaluated with regard to the impact on the medical error vulnerability (MEV) of internal medicine patients.   METHODS A team of internal medicine doctors plus a network of forty specialists was set-up in one health district belonging to a unified and universal national health system of a country of Western Europe, in order to provide free-of-charge MT to support general practitioners in solving internal medicine cases. In this observational study, the case series of 2013 is reviewed.   RESULTS a) Only 21% of the MT fell short to the general practitioner's expectations about the case solving focus; b) throughout the medical care process of the patient, 49% of the cases met with one or more of the five MEVs, namely: 1) clinical test mishandling; 2) inaccurate differential diagnosis; 3) inadequate information flow between health providers at different levels of care (transition care); 4) poor coordination between health providers; and 5) poor reconciliation of medications or hazardous therapies. c) MT canceled or prevented MEVs in 56% and mitigate MEVs in 15% of the cases; d) MT canceled or prevented 85% of MEV caused by poor information exchange in transition care, therefore improving patient referral and counter-referral.   CONCLUSIONS MT reduces MEV and therefore, whenever implemented to a large extent, may improve the quality of health care delivery and the performance of national health systems.
The authors review the most important contributions of Pierre Marie to the elucidation and description of several neurological diseases, such as Charcot-Marie-Tooth's disease and hereditary cerebellar ataxia, as well as his contributions to Internal Medicine, including his pioneering studies on acromegaly, ankylosing spondylitis, and hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy. His works led to incontestable advances in the medical sciences that transcended his time.
OBJECTIVES Although guidelines recommend hepatitis B virus (HBV) immunization for adults with diabetes mellitus (DM), vaccination rates remain low. Our aim was to evaluate knowledge and practice regarding HBV and to assess the effectiveness of a multifaceted educational program.   METHODS Primary care residents (n = 244) at three academic institutions were surveyed about various aspects of HBV. Residents at one training program were then randomly assigned to an educational intervention (E) (n = 20) and control group (C) (n = 19). The E group received a focused didactic lecture and periodic e-mail reminders with immediate feedback. We compared knowledge scores before and after the intervention. Chart audits were conducted to evaluate the residents' behavior.   RESULTS A total of 103 (42%) residents responded to the survey. The survey indicated that residents lacked the necessary knowledge and risk assessment skills concerning HBV in patients with DM. In the controlled trial of the E intervention, both groups had similar baseline knowledge scores. The E group had a significant increase in the immediate postintervention knowledge scores from a mean of 29% at baseline to 70% (P < 0.001) that was sustained 6 months postintervention (65%; P < 0.001). In the C group, 6-month postintervention scores were not different from baseline (38% vs 29%). No significant differences were observed in documentation skills.   CONCLUSIONS A combined educational program was effective in enhancing knowledge about HBV and vaccination in DM but had limited influence on physicians' practice. Further study incorporating system changes along with educational initiatives is required to improve clinical practice.
AIMS To assess inappropriate prescribing in older people with diabetes mellitus during the month prior to a hospitalization, using tools on potentially inappropriate medicines (PIMs) and potential prescribing omissions (PPOs) and comparing inappropriate prescribing in patients with without diabetes.   METHODS In an observational, prospective multicentric study, we assessed inappropriate prescribing in 672 patients aged 75 years and older during hospital admission. The Beers, Screening Tool of Older Person's Prescriptions (STOPP) and Screening Tool to Alert Doctors to Right Treatment (START) criteria and Assessing Care of Vulnerable Elders (ACOVE-3) medicine quality indicators were used. We analysed demographic and clinical factors associated with inappropriate prescribing.   RESULTS Of 672 patients, 249 (mean age 82.4 years, 62.9% female) had a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus. The mean number of prescribing drugs per patient with diabetes was 12.6 (4.5) vs. 9.4 (4.3) in patients without diabetes (P < 0.001). Of those patients with diabetes, 74.2% used 10 or more medications; 54.5% of patients with diabetes had at least one Beers-listed PIM, 68.1% had at least one STOPP-listed PIM, 64.6% had at least one START-listed PPO and 62.8% had at least one ACOVE-3-listed PPO. Except for the Beers criteria, these prevalences were significantly higher in patients with diabetes than in those without. After excluding diabetes-related items from these tools, only STOPP-listed PIMs remained significantly higher among patients with diabetes (P = 0.04).   CONCLUSIONS Polypharmacy is common among older patients with diabetes mellitus. Inappropriate prescribing is higher in older patients with diabetes, even when diabetes-related treatment is excluded from the inappropriate prescribing evaluation.
OBJECTIVES To examine internal medicine and emergency medicine healthcare provider perceptions of usefulness of specific clinical prediction rules.   SETTING The study took place in two academic medical centres. A web-based survey was distributed and completed by participants between 1 January and 31 May 2013.   PARTICIPANTS Medical doctors, doctors of osteopathy or nurse practitioners employed in the internal medicine or emergency medicine departments at either institution.   PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES The primary outcome was to identify the clinical prediction rules perceived as most useful by healthcare providers specialising in internal medicine and emergency medicine. Secondary outcomes included comparing usefulness scores of specific clinical prediction rules based on provider specialty, and evaluating associations between usefulness scores and perceived characteristics of these clinical prediction rules.   RESULTS Of the 401 healthcare providers asked to participate, a total of 263 (66%), completed the survey. The CHADS2 score was chosen by most internal medicine providers (72%), and Pulmonary Embolism Rule-Out Criteria (PERC) score by most emergency medicine providers (45%), as one of the top three most useful from a list of 24 clinical prediction rules. Emergency medicine providers rated their top three significantly more positively, compared with internal medicine providers, as having a better fit into their workflow (p=0.004), helping more with decision-making (p=0.037), better fitting into their thought process when diagnosing patients (p=0.001) and overall, on a 10-point scale, more useful (p=0.009). For all providers, the perceived qualities of useful at point of care, helps with decision making, saves time diagnosing, fits into thought process, and should be the standard of clinical care correlated highly (0.65) with overall 10-point usefulness scores.   CONCLUSIONS Healthcare providers describe clear preferences for certain clinical prediction rules, based on medical specialty.
BACKGROUND Burnout is high among resident physicians and may be associated with suboptimal patient care and reduced empathy.   OBJECTIVE To investigate the relationship between patient perceptions of empathy and enablement and physician burnout in internal medicine residents.   DESIGN Cross-sectional, survey-based observational study between December 2012 and March 2013 in a resident continuity clinic located within a large urban academic primary care practice in Baltimore, Maryland.   PARTICIPANTS Study participants were 44 PGY1-3 residents and a convenience sample of their English-speaking adult primary care patients (N=244).   MAIN MEASURES Patients rated their resident physicians using the Consultation and Relational Empathy Measure (CARE) and the Patient Enablement Instrument (PEI). Residents completed the Maslach Burnout Inventory (MBI). We tested for associations between resident burnout and patients' perceptions of resident empathy (CARE) and enablement (PEI) using multilevel regression analysis.   KEY RESULTS Multilevel regression analyses indicated significant positive associations between physician depersonalization scores on the MBI and patient ratings of empathy (B=0.28, SE=0.17, p<0.001) and enablement (B=0.11, SE=0.11, p=0.02). Emotional exhaustion scores on the MBI were not significantly related to either patient outcome.   CONCLUSIONS Patients perceived residents who reported higher levels of depersonalization as more empathic and enabling during their patient care encounters. The relationship between physician distress and patient perceptions of care has important implications for medical education and requires further study.
BACKGROUND Prognosis is a critical consideration in caring for older adults with multiple chronic conditions, or 'multimorbidity'. Clinicians are not adequately trained in this area. We describe an innovative curriculum that teaches internal medicine residents how to incorporate prognosis in the care of older adults with multimorbidity.   METHODS The curriculum includes three small-group sessions and a clinical exercise; it focuses on the assessment, communication, and application of prognosis to inform clinical decisions. The curriculum was implemented with 20 first-year residents at one university-based residency (intervention group). Fifty-two first-year residents from a separate residency affiliated with the same university served as controls. Evaluation included three components. A survey assessed acceptability. A pre/post survey assessed attitude, knowledge, and self-reported skills (Impact survey). Comparison of baseline and follow-up results used paired t-test and McNemar test; comparison of inter-group differences used t-test and Fisher's exact test. A retrospective, blinded pre/post chart review assessed documentation behavior; abstracted outcomes were analyzed using Fisher's exact test.   RESULTS The curriculum was highly rated (4.5 on 5-point scale). Eighteen intervention group residents (90 %) and 29 control group residents (56 %) responded to the Impact survey. At baseline, there were no significant inter-group differences in any of the responses. The intervention group improved significantly in prognosis communication skills (5.2 to 6.6 on 9-point scale, p<0.001), usage of evidence-based prognostic tools (1/18 to 14/18 responses, p<0.001), and prognostic accuracy (1/18 to 9/18 responses, p=0.005). These responses were significantly different from the control group at follow-up. Of 71 charts reviewed in each group, prognosis documentation in the intervention group increased from 1/25 charts (4 %) at baseline to 8/46 charts (17 %) at follow-up (p=0.15). No prognosis documentation was identified in the control group at either time point. Inter-group difference was significant at follow-up (p=0.006).   CONCLUSION We developed and implemented a novel prognosis curriculum that had significant short-term impact on the residents' knowledge and communication skills as compared to a control group. This innovative curriculum addresses an important educational gap in incorporating prognosis in the care of older adults with multimorbidity.
BACKGROUND The recently introduced oral direct anticoagulants (ODAs), presumably safer, and with comparable efficacy to the vitamin K antagonists (VKAs), may reshape the world of anticoagulation medicine. This study aimed to assess the prescription appropriateness of ODAs and VKAs at discharge from hospital.   METHODS We performed a one year retrospective study between August 2012혻and July 2013혻in the department of internal medicine of a regional hospital (HVs Sion) using Electronic Medical Records. All patients receiving an ODA were included and matched to a patient treated with a VKA. The appropriateness of prescription at discharge was defined by an adequate indication and dosing, the absence of contraindication, a minimal risk of drug-drug interactions and no major bleeding or venous thromboembolism during the hospitalization. The bleeding risk was evaluated with the HAS-BLED score when the indication was atrial fibrillation (AF).   RESULTS Out of the 44patients included (22혻with an ODA and 22혻with a VKA), 38혻received an appropriate prescription according to all criteria. Two patients had an inadequate dosing. A potential drug-drug interaction was detected in 3patients receiving a VKA and in 1patient receiving an ODA. No major contraindication was found, but a relative contraindication was discussed in 3cases. The majority of patients receiving an ODA for an AF had a minor bleeding risk.   CONCLUSION No significant difference was ascertained between the two groups regarding the appropriateness of prescription. Our results suggest that ODAs were cautiously used in our setting.
IMPORTANCE In response to a perceived erosion of medical dermatology, combined internal medicine and dermatology programs (med/derm) programs have been developed that aim to train dermatologists who take care of medically complex patients. Despite the investment in these programs, there is currently no data with regards to the potential impact of these trainees on the dermatology workforce.   OBJECTIVE To determine the experiences, motivations, and future plans of residents in combined med/derm residency programs.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS We surveyed residents at all United States institutions with both categorical and combined training programs in spring of 2012. Respondents used visual analog scales to rate clinical interests, self-assessed competency, career plans, and challenges.   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES The primary study outcomes were comfort in taking care of patients with complex disease, future practice plans, and experience during residency.   RESULTS Twenty-eight of 31 med/derm residents (87.5%) and 28 of 91 (31%) categorical residents responded (overall response rate 46%). No significant differences were seen in self-assessed dermatology competency, or comfort in performing inpatient consultations, cosmetic procedures, or prescribing systemic agents. A trend toward less comfort in general dermatology was seen among med/derm residents. Med/derm residents were more likely to indicate career preferences for performing inpatient consultation and taking care of medically complex patients. Categorical residents rated their programs and experiences more highly.   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Med/derm residents have stronger interests in serving medically complex patients. Categorical residents are more likely to have a positive experience during residency. Future work will be needed to ascertain career choices among graduates once data are available.
OBJECTIVES We examined the impact of weekly feedback reports on the test-ordering behavior of internal medicine residents.   STUDY DESIGN Retrospective analysis of a performance improvement effort.   METHODS In a large, urban, academic medical center, we extracted raw data on every inpatient laboratory test ordered by all internal medicine residents during two 26-week time periods. The pre-intervention phase established baseline ordering volume as each resident rotated through the various clinical services. The intervention consisted of a 1-hour educational seminar detailing the potential harm and costs of laboratory overutilization followed by the post intervention phase, which consisted of weekly feedback reports graphically illustrating individual versus group ordering patterns, where the identity of individual residents was protected. The total numbers of tests ordered during the 2 phases were compared using an independent t test.   RESULTS During the post intervention phase, we observed a net reduction of 21% in tests ordered-an average of 941 tests per week-with the greatest reduction in the chemistry section of the laboratory, followed by hematology, coagulation, and all others combined. This reduction in test volume corresponded to a $1.3 million reduction in charges.   CONCLUSIONS Providing physicians-in-training with a weekly feedback report detailing their test ordering volume in comparison with those of their peers is an effective method for reducing laboratory overutilization. Benefits to our approach include maintaining physician autonomy without alteration of existing infrastructure or disclosure of test fees.
OBJECTIVES Evaluating unnecessary US medical practices, and the strategies that reduce them, are increasingly recognized as crucial to healthcare financing sustainability. Provider factors are known to affect unnecessary medical practices, yet little is known about how physician responses to patient requests for unnecessary care affect these practices. Among primary care physicians (PCPs), we investigated 2 types of unnecessary medical practices triggered by patient requests: a) unnecessary specialty referrals and b) prescriptions for brand-name drugs when generic alternatives are available.   STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS We used data from a survey of a nationally representative sample of 840 US PCPs in 2009. Response rates for family practice (n = 274), internal medicine (n = 257), and pediatrics (n = 309) were 67.5%, 60.8%, and 72.7%, respectively.   RESULTS In response to patient requests, 51.9% of PCPs reported making unnecessary specialty referrals and 38.7% prescribed brand-name drugs. Family physicians (odds ratio [OR], 2.77; 95% CI, 1.77-4.34) and internal medicine physicians (OR, 4.51; 95% CI, 2.87-7.06) were more likely than pediatricians to prescribe brand-name drugs. PCP specialty was similarly associated with unnecessary referrals. Other predictors of acquiescence to patient requests included interactions with drug/device representatives, more years of clinical experience, seeing fewer safety net patients, and solo/2-person practice organizations. Area-level Medicare spending was not associated with the 2 unnecessary practices.   CONCLUSIONS Many PCPs reported acquiescing to patient requests for unnecessary care. Provider and organizational factors predicted this behavior. Policies aimed at reducing such practice could improve care quality and lower cost. Patient and physician incentives that can potentially reduce unnecessary medical practices warrant exploration.
INTRODUCTION Delirium is a common neurocognitive syndrome that takes place during hospitalizations, associated with worse global outcomes in patients who present it. Despite this, it is usually under-recognized as a disease that needs specific treatment.   OBJECTIVES To determine the rate of prevalence of delirium in Internal Medicine Service patients and evaluate missed diagnosis of the syndrome made by attending physicians, medical residents or interns in charge.   METHODS This is a descriptive observational study carried out in the Internal Medicine Service of Dr. Eduardo Pereira Hospital (April 12 - May 12, 2014) evaluating 125 patients who were admitted to this service. Through the Confusion Assessment Method Instrument, the prevalence of delirium disease and the number of missed diagnosis was established.   RESULTS One hundred and two (102) patients met the inclusion criteria. Nineteen (19) (18.6%) of them were diagnosed with delirium. In the diagnosed patient group, 13 (68.4%) were women. Delirium diagnosis was missed in eight patients (42.1%).   CONCLUSIONS The prevalence of delirium in this specific Hospital is as expected, according to the literature. Considering the diagnostic tools available, it is crucial to train health workers to improve recognition and management of this syndrome.
Polycystic ovary syndrome is the most common hormonal and metabolic disorder likely to affect women. The syndrome is often associated with obesity, hyperinsulinemia and adversely affects endocrine, metabolic, and cardiovascular health. The complex feature of the syndrome requires an interdisciplinary approach to treatment, where cooperation of paediatrician, internist, gynaecologist, endocrinologist, dermatologist, psychologist and oncologist is essential. The prevention and the treatment should be based on the best available evidence. This should include physical examination, laboratory tests for hormones, serum insulin, glucose, lipids, in addition patient's preferences should be considered, too. To maximise health gain of polycystic ovarian syndrome, adequate, effective, efficient and safe treatment is necessary. This article summarises the highest available evidence provided by meta-analyses and systematic reviews of the prevention of metabolic and cardiovascular complications of the syndrome, and discusses the relevant evidence published in the literature.
OBJECTIVE To compare racial and ethnic differences between obstetrician-gynecologists (ob-gyns) and other large groups of adult medical specialists who provide the predominant care of women. Whether physician diversity influences their practice locations in underserved areas was also sought.   METHODS This cross-sectional study reports an analysis of U.S. national data about racial and ethnic characteristics, gender, and specialty (obstetrics and gynecology, general internal medicine, family medicine, emergency medicine) of 190,379 physicians who came from three resources (Association of American Medical Colleges Student Records System, Association of American Medical Colleges Minority Physicians Database, American Medical Association Physician Masterfile). Underserved locations were identified as being rural, having 20% or more of the population living in poverty or being federally designated as areas of professional shortages or underserved populations. Bivariate measures of associations were performed to study the association between physician race and ethnicity and their practice location.   RESULTS Female physicians in all specialties were more likely than males to be nonwhite, and ob-gyns were most likely to be female (61.9%). Compared with other studied specialists, ob-gyns had the highest proportion of underrepresented minorities (combined, 18.4%), especially black (11.1%) and Hispanic (6.7%) physicians. Underrepresented minority ob-gyns were more likely than white or Asians to practice in federally funded underserved areas or where poverty levels were high. Native Americans, Alaska Natives, and Pacific Islanders were the ob-gyn group with the highest proportion practicing in rural areas.   CONCLUSION Compared with other adult medical specialists, ob-gyns have a relatively high proportion of black and Hispanic physicians. A higher proportion of underrepresented minority ob-gyns practiced at medically underserved areas.
PURPOSE A framework of clinical reasoning tasks thought to occur in a clinical encounter was recently developed. It proposes that diagnostic and therapeutic reasoning comprise 24 tasks. The authors of this current study used this framework to investigate what internal medicine residents reason about when they approach straightforward clinical cases.   METHOD Participants viewed three video-recorded clinical encounters portraying common diagnoses. After each video, participants completed a post encounter form and think-aloud protocol. Two authors analyzed transcripts from the think-aloud protocols using a constant comparative approach. They conducted iterative coding of the utterances, classifying each according to the framework of clinical reasoning tasks. They evaluated the type, number, and sequence of tasks the residents used.   RESULTS Ten residents participated in the study in 2013-2014. Across all three cases, the residents employed 14 clinical reasoning tasks. Nearly all coded tasks were associated with framing the encounter or diagnosis. The order in which residents used specific tasks varied. The average number of tasks used per case was as follows: Case 1, 4.4 (range 1-10); Case 2, 4.6 (range 1-6); and Case 3, 4.7 (range 1-7). The residents used some tasks repeatedly; the average number of task utterances was 11.6, 13.2, and 14.7 for, respectively, Case 1, 2, and 3.   CONCLUSIONS Results suggest that the use of clinical reasoning tasks occurs in a varied, not sequential, process. The authors provide suggestions for strengthening the framework to more fully encompass the spectrum of reasoning tasks that occur in residents' clinical encounters.
INTRODUCTION Twitter(짰) is a social 'microblogging' network in which users can send and receive updates of up to 140혻characters. Nowadays its use in medicine has become common in the United Kingdom and in the USA, particularly in scientific meetings where attendees tweet relevant information from the various lectures. Then, the tweeted information is relayed by followers who may be present or not at the lectures.   RESULTS Using Twitter(짰) on the 70th Congress of French Society of Internal Medicine with @MielLorraine and @secretaireMIEL accounts was the first time in internal medicine in France. In total, 825혻tweets were posted by both accounts and 59% were original. The two accounts were followed by respectively 12혻and 10혻followers. People outside the congress were able to get information and to start discussion on many topics.   CONCLUSION This experience emphasizes the fact that Twitter(짰) improves interactions during congresses. Therefore, we should continue on a going forward basis to develop this tool.
BACKGROUND The rate of medication non-adherence has been consistently reported to be between 20 and 50%. The majority of available data comes from international studies, and we hypothesised that a similar rate of adherence may be observed in Australian patients.   AIMS To determine the rate of adherence to medications after discharge from acute general hospital admission and identify factors that may be associated with non-adherence.   METHODS A prospective cohort study of 68 patients, comparing admission and discharge medication regimens to self-reported regimens 30-40뎒ays after discharge from hospital. Patients were followed up via telephone call and univariate and multivariate binary logistic regression used to determine patient factors associated with non-adherence.   RESULTS In all, 27 of 68 patients (39.7%) were non-adherent to one or more regular medications at follow up. Intentional and unintentional non-adherence contributed equally to non-adherence. Using multivariate analysis, presence of a carer responsible for medications was associated with significantly lower non-adherence (odds ratio (OR) 0.20 (0.05-0.83), P=0.027) when adjusted for age, co-morbidities, chemist blister pack and total number of discharge medications.   CONCLUSIONS Non-adherence to prescription medications is suboptimal and consistent with previous overseas studies. Having a carer responsible for medications is associated with significantly lower rates of non-adherence. Understanding patients' preferences and involving them in their healthcare may reduce intentional non-adherence.
BACKGROUND Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is the third most common cause of death and the leading cause of sudden death in hospitalized medical patients. Despite the existence of guidelines for prevention and treatment of this disorder, their implementation in everyday life is not always accomplished.   METHODS We performed a survey among directors of Internal Medicine departments in our country in order to evaluate their attitude and approach to this issue. A questionnaire with pertinent questions regarding prevention and treatment of VTE, including deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) was sent to each one of the directors of Internal Medicine Departments around the country.   RESULTS Sixty-nine out of 97 (71%) of the Internal Medicine departments directors responded the questionnaire. We found that several of the current guidelines were followed in a reasonable way. On the other hand, heterogeneity of responses was also present and the performance of current guidelines was imperfectly followed, and showed to be deficient in several aspects.   CONCLUSIONS An effort should be done in order to reemphasize and put in effect current guidelines for the prevention and treatment of VTE among hospitalists and Internal Medicine practitioners.
INTRODUCTION Patients with multiple hospital admissions represent a small percentage of total hospitalizations but result in a considerable proportion of the healthcare expenditure. There are no studies that have analyzed their long-term clinical evolution.   OBJECTIVES To study the characteristics, temporal patterns of readmissions and clinical evolution of patients with multiple hospital admission in the long term.   METHODS A retrospective study was conducted of all hospital admissions in the medical area of the Hospital of Lugo (Spain) between January 1, 2000 and December 31, 2012, based on data from the center's minimum basic data set.   RESULTS A total of 139,249 hospital admissions for 62,515 patients were studied. Six hospital admissions were recorded for 6.4% of the patients. The overall mortality rate was 16% (9982 patients). The readmissions rate steadily increased with each new admission, from 48% after the first event to 74.6% after the fifth. The rate of hospital readmission before 30days increased from 18.3% in the second admission to 36.3% in the sixth. The number of chronic diseases increased from 3.1 (SD, 2) in the first hospital admission up to 4.9 (2.8) in the sixth. The Department of Internal Medicine treated a third of all hospital admissions. In the sixth hospitalization, conditions associated with admission in Internal Medicine were CIRS score, age, heart failure, COPD, dementia, diabetes, atrial fibrillation and anemia.   CONCLUSIONS Patients with multiple hospital admissions are complex patients whose temporal pattern of readmissions changes with time, such that each hospital admission constitutes a factor facilitating the next.
BACKGROUND The Night Float system (NFS) is often used in residency training programs to meet work hour regulations. The purpose of this study was to examine resident and attendings' perceptions of the NFS on issues of resident learning, well-being, work, non-educational activities and the health care system (patient safety and quality of care, inter-professional teams, workload on attendings and costs of on-call coverage).   METHODS A survey questionnaire with closed and open-ended questions (26 residents and eight attendings in an Internal Medicine program), informal discussions with the program and moonlighting and financial data were collected.   RESULTS AND DISCUSSION The main findings included, (i) an overall congruency in opinions between resident and attendings across all mean comparisons, (ii) perceptions of improvement for most aspects of resident well-being (e.g. stress, fatigue) and work environment (e.g. supervision, support), (iii) a neutral effect on the resident learning environment, except resident opinions on an increase in opportunities for learning, (iv) perceptions of improved patient safety and quality of care despite worsened continuity of care, and (v) no increases in work-load on attendings or the health care system (cost-neutral call coverage). Patient safety, handovers and increased utilization of moonlighting opportunities need further exploration.
INTRODUCTION Internal medicine (IM) interns start continuity clinic with variable ambulatory training. Multiple other specialties have utilized a boot camp style curriculum to improve surgical and procedural skills, but boot camps have not been used to improve interns' ambulatory knowledge and confidence. The authors implemented and assessed the impact of an intern ambulatory boot camp pilot on primary care knowledge, confidence, and curricular satisfaction.   METHODS During July 2014, IM interns attended ambulatory boot camp. It included clinically focused case-based didactic sessions on common ambulatory topics as well as orientation to the clinic and electronic medical records. Interns anonymously completed a 15-question pre-test on topics covered in the boot camp as well as an identical post-test after the boot camp. The interns were surveyed regarding their confidence and satisfaction.   RESULTS Thirty-eight interns participated in the boot camp. Prior to the boot camp, few interns reported confidence managing common outpatient conditions. The average pre-test knowledge score was 46.3%. The average post-test knowledge score significantly improved to 76.1% (p<0.001). All interns reported that the boot camp was good preparation for clinics and 97% felt that the boot camp boosted their confidence.   CONCLUSIONS The ambulatory boot camp pilot improved primary care knowledge, and interns thought it was good preparation for clinic. The ambulatory boot camp was well received and may be an effective way to improve the preparation of interns for primary care clinic. Further assessment of clinical performance and expansion to other programs and specialties should be considered.
The relevance of classifying hyperglycemic hospitalized subjects (HS) as known diabetes (D), newly discovered diabetes (ND), and stress hyperglycemia (SH) is unclear. The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence, in-hospital mortality, and length of stay (LOS) of three different phenotypes of HS. Fasting glucose 126혻mg/dL (7혻mmol/L) or random blood glucose 200혻mg/dL (11.1혻mmol/L) defined HS who were categorized into three groups: D; ND (no history of diabetes and HbA1c 48혻mmol/mol); SH (no history of diabetes and HbA1c <48혻mmol/mol). The end points of the study were in-hospital mortality and LOS. Of 1447 consecutive enrolled subjects, the prevalence of HS was 28.6혻% (415/1447), of these 71.6혻% had D, 21.2혻% SH, and 7.2혻% ND, respectively. In-hospital death was 3.9혻% in normoglycemic and 6.0혻% in hyperglycemic subjects. Individuals with SH had an increased risk of in-hospital death (7.9혻%) (HR 2.17, 95혻% CI 1.18-4.9; p혻=혻0.039), while this was not observed for D and ND patients. The mean LOS was greater in ND and SH subjects. Hyperglycemia is common, and is associated with an increased risk of in-hospital mortality and extension of hospital stay. HbA1c along with clinical history is a useful tool to identify subgroups of hyperglycemic hospitalized subjects. Individuals with SH have a longer LOS, and a double risk of in-hospital mortality. Additionally, identifying previously unknown diabetes represents a remarkable opportunity for prevention of diabetes-related acute and chronic complications.
Alternative payment models in oncology are already successfully standardizing care, curbing costs, and improving the patient experience. Yet, it is unclear whether decision makers are adequately considering patient access to innovation when creating these models, which could have severe consequences for a robust innovation ecosystem and the lives of afflicted patients. The suggested chart includes recommendations on: Allowing for the adoption of new, promising therapies; Promoting the measurement of patient-centered outcomes; and Providing support for personalized medicine.
INTRODUCTION Pneumonia is a common infectious disease and causes significant morbidity and mortality especially in elderly people. Aspiration as a cause of pneumonia is common in this population. The aim of our study was to describe the clinical features and outcomes of very old patients with aspiration pneumonia (AP) and comparing them with patients with non-AP.   MATERIAL AND METHODS In this prospective cohort study, we analyzed old patients (80 years-old) with pneumonia admitted 2014 in the Department of General Internal Medicine.   RESULTS Seventy-six old patients with pneumonia were included in the study, and 46 (60.5%) met criteria of AP. Increasing levels of urea, creatinine and sodium and low estimated glomerular filtrate rate were more common among AP patients. In addition, severity of pneumonia scored by pneumonia severity index and CURB-65 score were significantly greater in AP than in non-AP patients. The 30-days mortality in AP was (44%) quite higher than in non-AP (32%). The only predictor of mortality was high level of sodium (odds ratio: 1.09; 95% confidence intervals: 1.00-1.18).   CONCLUSIONS AP in octogenarian and nonagenarians showed higher levels of sodium and low estimated glomerular filtrate rate and higher severity of pneumonia and slightly higher mortality than non-AP.
The Future Hospital Commission has highlighted the need for increased general medical skills in the medical workforce in order to meet the increasing demands on the NHS in terms of patients with increasing age, frailty and complex comorbidities. However there continues to be a lack of clarity around the concept of generalism and general internal medicine (GIM), with differing views on the physician's role in GIM. This survey sought to explore further the roles in which current physicians perceive they are practising GIM as well as views on training in GIM. The survey highlights three key points: (i) that consultant perception and practice of GIM continues to vary dependent on physician specialty; (ii) that the practice of GIM is not limited to the front door but includes the management of patients under the care of a specialty team with general medical needs, be that in an inpatient, outpatient or acute care setting; and (iii) that training in GIM needs to reflect this variation in roles and practice.
OBJECTIVES Global payment contracts (GPCs) are increasingly common agreements between insurance payers and healthcare providers that incorporate aspects of risk adjustment, capitation, and pay-for-performance. Physicians are often viewed as potential barriers to implementation of organizational change, but little is known about internist opinion on GPC involvement or specific internist attributes that might predict GPC support. We aimed to investigate internist and internal medicine subspecialist support of GPC involvement, and to identify associations among physician attributes, GPC knowledge, and GPC support.   STUDY DESIGN Cross-sectional.   METHODS General medicine and internal medicine subspecialist physicians within the Beth Israel Deaconess Department of Medicine in Boston, Massachusetts, were surveyed 4 years after care organization entry into a GPC. Measurements collected included reported support for GPC involvement, reason for support, and demonstrated comprehension of key GPC details.   RESULTS Of the 281 respondents (49% response rate), 85% reported supporting involvement in a GPC. In a multivariate ordinal logistic regression model, exposure to prior information about GPCs, demonstrated comprehension of key GPC details, longer time since completion of residency, and lower clinical time commitment were all independently associated with higher levels of GPC involvement support.   CONCLUSIONS Four years since first engaging in a global payment contract, a majority of internal medicine physician respondents support this decision. Understanding predictors of physician support for GPC involvement within our care organization may help other health systems to approach organizational change. Health system leaders debating GPC involvement should consider engaging physicians via educational interventions geared toward improving GPC support.
OBJECTIVES In academic medical centers, resident physicians are most involved in the care of patients, yet many have little training in the proper use of interpreters in the care of patients with limited English-language proficiency. Residents have cited lack of time and lack of access to trained medical interpreters as barriers to the use of professional interpreter services. The purpose of this study was to examine the usage patterns of interpreters and perceived barriers to using interpreters in New Orleans.   METHODS Subjects included resident physicians training in internal medicine, pediatrics, and combined internal medicine and pediatrics at Tulane University and Louisiana State University in New Orleans. A survey that consisted of demographics, short-answer, and Likert-scale questions regarding attitudes related to the use of interpreters was used as the metric.   RESULTS The overall response rate was 55.5%. A total of 92.4% of subjects surveyed stated that they had used an interpreter during their residency. Telephone services and family members were the most commonly used types of interpreters (41.3% and 30.5%, respectively). Resident physicians were most likely to use interpreter services during their initial history taking as well as at discharge, but use declined throughout patients' hospitalization (P < 0.001). Residents cited lack of availability, lack of time, and lack of knowledge about accessing interpreter services as the major barriers to using interpreters.   CONCLUSIONS Resident physicians training in New Orleans have experience using interpreter services; however, they continue to use untrained interpreters and use varies during the hospital encounter. Targeted training for residents, including interpreter logistics, may help increase the use of interpreters.
IMPORTANCE Despite general support for the goals of maintenance of certification (MOC), concerns have been raised about its effectiveness, relevance, and value.   OBJECTIVE To identify barriers and enabling features associated with MOC and how MOC can be changed to better accomplish its intended purposes.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Grounded theory focus group study of 50 board-certified primary care and subspecialist internal medicine and family medicine physicians in an academic medical center and outlying community sites.   EXPOSURES Eleven focus groups.   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Constant comparative method to analyze transcripts and identify themes related to MOC perceptions and purposes and to construct a model to guide improvement.   RESULTS Participants identified misalignments between the espoused purposes of MOC (eg, to promote high-quality care, commitment to the profession, lifelong learning, and the science of quality improvement) and MOC as currently implemented. At present, MOC is perceived by physicians as an inefficient and logistically difficult activity for learning or assessment, often irrelevant to practice, and of little benefit to physicians, patients, or society. To resolve these misalignments, we propose a model that invites increased support from organizations, effectiveness and relevance of learning activities, value to physicians, integration with clinical practice, and coherence across MOC tasks.   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Physicians view MOC as an unnecessarily complex process that is misaligned with its purposes. Acknowledging and correcting these misalignments will help MOC meet physicians' needs and improve patient care.
OBJECTIVES To examine the relationship between the compensation strategies of primary care physicians (PCPs) and the quality and outcomes of care delivered to Medicare beneficiaries.   STUDY DESIGN Cross-sectional analysis of physician survey data linked to Medicare claims. We used a previously constructed typology that was developed based on the survey to categorize physician compensation strategies.   METHODS We combined data from the 2004-2005 Community Tracking Study Physician Survey on PCP compensation methods with administrative claims from the Medicare program. We analyzed the proportion of eligible beneficiaries receiving each of 7 preventive services and rates of preventable admissions for acute and chronic conditions. We measured the latter using Prevention Quality Indicators (PQIs), available from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.   RESULTS The 2211 PCP respondents included 937 internists and 1274 family or general physicians who were linked to more than 250,000 Medicare enrollees. Employed physicians with productivity and other incentives were more likely to deliver care of high quality when compared with salaried physicians. For instance, the odds of appropriate monitoring for diabetics ranged from 1.26 to 1.47 (all P < .01). Physicians in highly capitated environments had similar or better quality compared with physicians in other environments across most measures. The association between compensation strategies and outcomes of care as measured by PQIs was inconsistent, although owners with no other incentives had consistent higher rates of acute and chronic PQI admission (eg, for the chronic PQI composite: odds ratio = 1.07; 95% CI, 1.02-1.12).   CONCLUSIONS Physician compensation strategies are associated with the quality of preventive services delivered to Medicare patients, but inconsistently associated with outcomes of care. Increasing use of global payment strategies is not likely to lead to lower quality.
Stroke constitutes a substantial clinical and socio-economic burden. It is currently the third cause of death worldwide and results in mortality or disability in every third patient at the end of the first year following an acute cerebrovascular event. Although in-hospital mortality rates in stroke patients have decreased, prevention and cardiovascular risk control remain critical for improving the prognosis and reducing stroke burden worldwide. The definitions of stroke and transient ischemic attack (TIA) have been recently modified following the findings from neuroimaging and thrombolysis research. Both stroke and TIA are recurrent and preventable disorders. Both patients with stroke and those with TIA require prompt clinical workup, risk assessment, and appropriate management because the risk of recurrence, stroke, and coronary events is significant. The 5 most common cardiovascular risk factors (high blood pressure, smoking, abdominal obesity, diet, and lack of physical activity) are responsible for 80% of the cases. Stroke prevention involves lifestyle modification and specific treatment. Secondary prevention of ischemic stroke involves early treatment (antiplatelets and carotid interventions) and long-term management including lifestyle changes, antihypertensive therapy, antiplatelets, antithrombotic drugs in patients with atrial fibrillation, and the use of statins and other lipid-lowering drugs. Stroke patients are at risk of depression, dementia, epilepsy, and other complications that also require targeted treatment.
PURPOSE To determine perceptions of general internal medicine (GIM) division directors of the importance of and support for clinician-educators' (CEs') scholarship.   METHOD In 2010, the authors identified 127 accredited U.S. MD-granting medical schools with a GIM division, identified 144 GIM directors, and were able to survey 129 of them. Directors were asked to rate the importance of specific CE scholarly accomplishments for promotion from assistant to associate professor, to describe current research support for CEs, and to state how they would support the scholarly work of CEs if they had funding.   RESULTS Fifty-five directors (42.6%) from 52 institutions responded; there were no significant differences between responding and nonresponding schools. Curriculum development, presentations at national meetings and other institutions, review articles, and book chapters were rated as 'most/very important' or 'important/somewhat important' by over 90%. Approximately half rated published original peer-reviewed articles as 'most/very important'; slightly less than half rated these 'not important,' a difference associated with having a specific CE track. If $100,000 per year were available to enhance the scholarly productivity of CEs, directors suggested spending it on faculty development, project coordination, protected time for CEs, and methodological and statistical support.   CONCLUSIONS This nationwide survey of GIM division directors confirms that academic CEs in GIM are judged on a wide variety of scholarly activities, many of which are consistent across institutions. However, academic GIM CEs need to understand their institutions' specific criteria, especially regarding the value placed on original, peer-reviewed publications.
PURPOSE Experienced clinicians derive many diagnoses intuitively, because most new problems they see closely resemble problems they've seen before. The majority of these diagnoses, but not all, will be correct. This study determined whether further reflection regarding initial diagnoses improves diagnostic accuracy during a high-stakes board exam, a model for studying clinical decision making.   METHOD Keystroke response data were used from 500 residents who took the 2010 American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) Internal Medicine Certification Examination. Data included time to initial response on each question, whether the answer was correct, and whether or not the resident changed her or his initial response. The focus was on 80 diagnosis questions that comprised realistic clinical vignettes with multiple-choice single-best answers. Cognitive skill (ability) was measured using overall exam scores. Case complexity was determined using item difficulty (proportion of examinees that correctly answered the question). A hierarchical generalized linear model was used to assess the relationship between time spent on initial responses and the probability of correctly answering the questions.   RESULTS On average, residents changed their responses on 12% of all diagnosis questions (or 9.6 questions out of 80). Changing an answer from incorrect to correct was almost twice as likely as changing an answer from correct to incorrect. The relationship between response time and accuracy was complex.   CONCLUSIONS Further reflection appears to be beneficial to diagnostic accuracy, especially for more complex cases.
OBJECTIVE To determine comfort when using the Electronic Health Record (EHR) and increase in documentation efficiency after an educational intervention for physicians to improve their transition to a new EHR.   METHODS This study was a single-center randomized, parallel, non-blinded controlled trial of real-time, focused educational interventions by physician peers in addition to usual training in the intervention arm compared with usual training in the control arm. Participants were 44 internal medicine physicians and residents stratified to groups using a survey of comfort with electronic media during rollout of a system-wide EHR and order entry system. Outcomes were median time to complete a progress note, notes completed after shift, and comfort with EHR at 20 and 40 shifts.   RESULTS In the intervention group, 73 education sessions averaging 14.4 (SD: 7.7) minutes were completed with intervention group participants, who received an average of 3.47 (SD: 2.1) interventions. Intervention group participants decreased their time to complete a progress note more quickly than controls over 30 shifts (p <0.001) and recorded significantly fewer progress notes after scheduled duty hours (77 versus 292, p <0.001). Comfort with EHRs increased significantly in both groups from baseline but did not differ significantly by group. Intervention group participants felt that the intervention was more helpful than their standard training (3.47 versus 1.95 on 4-point scale).   CONCLUSION Physicians teaching physicians during clinical work improved physician efficiency but not comfort with EHRs. More study is needed to determine best methods to assist those most challenged with new EHR rollouts.
BACKGROUND Few studies have compared the belief in and the use of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) across different medical specialties.   OBJECTIVE To investigate to what extent family physicians, internists and orthopaedists working in private practice in Germany (i) belief in the efficacy of CAM therapies; (ii) use these therapies for treating patients and (iii) whether beliefs and use are associated with basic professional attitudes.   METHODS A four-page questionnaire was sent to nation-wide random samples of the three groups of physicians. Participants were asked to indicate their belief in the efficacy and their use of seven CAM treatments and to rate their agreement to statements on orthodox and heterodox professional views, patient-provider relationship and placebo effects.   RESULTS A total of 935 of 2018 (46%) physicians contacted sent back a questionnaire. The belief in specific effects of CAM therapies varied strongly within and between specialties, but overall many physicians hold positive views. Internists were more skeptic than family physicians and orthopaedists (P < 0.001); 23% of family physicians, 6% of internists and 31% of orthopaedists reported to use four or more CAM therapies more often than once a week. Frequent CAM use was strongly associated with being an orthopaedist and a higher overall belief in CAM modalities. Holding orthodox professional views predicted low CAM use.   CONCLUSIONS Many physicians (particularly, family physicians and orthopaedists) working in private practice in Germany use CAM therapies frequently and believe in their efficacy. Professional views and the specific working situation seem to influence use and believe strongly.
BACKGROUND Dermatology consultations are frequently requested by inpatient hospital services. As inpatient dermatology services in the USA decline, dermatology hospital consultations are becoming increasingly important.   OBJECTIVES We aim to describe the spectrum of skin diseases encountered and the health care subspecialties requesting dermatology hospital consultations.   METHODS We performed a retrospective chart review of adult patient (age: 18 years) dermatology hospital consultations from January 1 to December 31, 2010. We examined patient demographic characteristics, consultation requesting services, and consultation diagnoses.   RESULTS Among dermatology services, 614 patients had 674 separate inpatient dermatology consultations during 2010. Of these patients, 55.9% were male (mean age: 59 years). In total, 205 consultations (30.4%) were requested by the internal medicine subspecialty, 137 (20.3%) by the hematology and oncology subspecialty, and 93 (13.8%) by the surgical subspecialty. The most common conditions seen by the hospital dermatology consulting service were skin infections (n = 125, 18.5%), dermatitis (n = 120, 17.8%), drug eruptions (n = 87, 12.9%), chronic wounds and ulcers (n = 55, 8.1%), cutaneous neoplasms (n = 39, 5.8%), graft-versus-host disease (n = 37, 5.5%), ecchymosis, purpura simplex or petechia (n = 26, 3.8%), intertrigo (n = 21, 3.1%), and urticaria (n = 20, 3.0%).   CONCLUSIONS The majority of consultations conducted by the dermatology hospital consulting service were for the management of common skin diseases, such as cutaneous infections, dermatitis, and drug eruptions. Most consultations were requested by the departments of internal medicine, hematology and oncology, and surgical services.
BACKGROUND Proficiency and self-confidence in the physical examination is poor among internal medicine residents and interest in ultrasound technology has expanded.   OBJECTIVE We aimed to determine whether a pocket-sized ultrasound improves the diagnostic accuracy and confidence of residents after a 3-h training session and 1 month of independent practice.   DESIGN This was a randomized parallel group controlled trial.   PARTICIPANTS Forty internal medicine residents in a single program at an academic medical center participated in the study.   INTERVENTION Three hours of training on use of pocket-sized ultrasound was followed by 1 month of independent practice.   MAIN MEASURES The primary outcome was a comparison of the diagnostic accuracy of a physical exam alone versus a physical examination augmented with a pocket-sized ultrasound. Other outcomes included confidence in exam findings and a survey of attitudes towards the physical exam and the role of ultrasound.   KEY RESULTS Residents in the intervention group using a pocket-sized ultrasound correctly identified an average of 7.6 of the 17 abnormal findings (accuracy rate of 44.9 %). Those in the control group correctly identified an average of 6.4 abnormal findings (accuracy rate of 37.6 %, p=0.11). Residents in the intervention group identified on average 15.9 findings as abnormal when no abnormality existed (false positive rate of 16.8 %). Those in the control group incorrectly identified an average of 15.5 positive findings (false positive rate of 16.3 %). There was no difference between groups regarding self-assessed confidence in physical examination. Residents in the intervention group identified 6.1 of 13 abnormal cardiac findings versus the control group's 4.5 of 13, an accuracy rate of 47.0 % versus 34.6 % (p=0.023).   CONCLUSIONS The diagnostic ability of internal medicine residents did not significantly improve with use of a pocket-sized ultrasound device after a 3-h training session and 1 month of independent practice.   TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov: number NCT01948076; URL http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/study/NCT01948076?term=ultrasound+physical+exam&rank=2.
INTRODUCTION In literature there are few studies on denied nursing communication/relationship and why this communication/relationship is avoided.   GOALS Evaluate criticism in communication/relationship in nursing in order to build an analytical basis for further study.   MATERIAL AND METHODS Participant observation during internship placements, diary and notes taken during the observation, furthermore the whole work context as well as the relationship in a internal medicine department were taken into consideration.   RESULTS In the majority of cases communication is avoided, reducing the time of contact with patients, in others it is sought even when not expressly required by the patient.   CONCLUSIONS Escape relationship may be an indicator of professional insecurity. The denied relationship is a mirror in which the practitioner finds its weaknesses. Considering these elements promotes the therapeutic path. The study gave interesting and relevant insights which can be considered as starting point for further research on the field with a wider sample.
Microbiology rounds are an integral part of infectious disease consultation service. During microbiology rounds, we highlight microbiology principles using vignettes. We created case-based, interactive, microbiology online modules similar to the vignettes presented during microbiology rounds. Since internal medicine residents rotating on our infectious disease elective have limited time to participate in rounds and learn microbiology, our objective was to evaluate the use of the microbiology online modules by internal medicine residents. We asked residents to complete 10 of 25 online modules during their infectious disease elective. We evaluated which modules they chose and the change in their knowledge level. Forty-six internal medicine residents completed assessments given before and after accessing the modules with an average of 11/20 (range, 6 to 19) and 16/20 (range, 9 to 20) correct questions, respectively (average improvement, 5 questions; P = 0.0001). The modules accessed by more than 30 residents included those related to Clostridium difficile, anaerobes, Candida spp., Streptococcus pneumoniae, influenza, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and Neisseria meningitidis. We demonstrated improved microbiology knowledge after completion of the online modules. This improvement may not be solely attributed to completing the online modules, as fellows and faculty may have provided additional microbiology education during the rotation.
BACKGROUND Teaching quality improvement (QI) principles during residency is an important component of promoting patient safety and improving quality of care. The literature on QI curricula for internal medicine residents is limited. We sought to evaluate the impact of a competency based curriculum on QI among internal medicine residents.   METHODS This was a prospective, cohort study over four years (2007-2011) using pre-post curriculum comparison design in an internal medicine residency program in Canada. Overall 175 post-graduate year one internal medicine residents participated. A two-phase, competency based curriculum on QI was developed with didactic workshops and longitudinal, team-based QI projects. The main outcome measures included self-assessment, objective assessment using the Quality Improvement Knowledge Assessment Tool (QIKAT) scores to assess QI knowledge, and performance-based assessment via presentation of longitudinal QI projects.   RESULTS Overall 175 residents participated, with a response rate of 160/175 (91%) post-curriculum and 114/175 (65%) after conducting their longitudinal QI project. Residents' self-reported confidence in making changes to improve health increased and was sustained at twelve months post-curriculum. Self-assessment scores of QI skills improved significantly from pre-curriculum (53.4 to 69.2 percent post-curriculum [p-value 0.002]) and scores were sustained at twelve months after conducting their longitudinal QI projects (53.4 to 72.2 percent [p-value 0.005]). Objective scores using the QIKAT increased post-curriculum from 8.3 to 10.1 out of 15 (p-value for difference <0.001) and this change was sustained at twelve months post-project with average individual scores of 10.7 out of 15 (p-value for difference from pre-curriculum <0.001). Performance-based assessment occurred via presentation of all projects at the annual QI Project Podium Presentation Day.   CONCLUSION The competency based curriculum on QI improved residents' QI knowledge and skills during residency training. Importantly, residents perceived that their QI knowledge improved after the curriculum and this also correlated to improved QIKAT scores. Experiential QI project work appeared to contribute to sustaining QI knowledge at twelve months.
BACKGROUND Written assessments fall into two classes: constructed-response or open-ended questions, such as the essay and a number of variants of the short-answer question, and selected-response or closed-ended questions; typically in the form of multiple-choice. It is widely believed that constructed response written questions test higher order cognitive processes in a manner that multiple-choice questions cannot, and consequently have higher validity.   DISCUSSION An extensive review of the literature suggests that in summative assessment neither premise is evidence-based. Well-structured open-ended and multiple-choice questions appear equivalent in their ability to assess higher cognitive functions, and performance in multiple-choice assessments may correlate more highly than the open-ended format with competence demonstrated in clinical practice following graduation. Studies of construct validity suggest that both formats measure essentially the same dimension, at least in mathematics, the physical sciences, biology and medicine. The persistence of the open-ended format in summative assessment may be due to the intuitive appeal of the belief that synthesising an answer to an open-ended question must be both more cognitively taxing and similar to actual experience than is selecting a correct response. I suggest that cognitive-constructivist learning theory would predict that a well-constructed context-rich multiple-choice item represents a complex problem-solving exercise which activates a sequence of cognitive processes which closely parallel those required in clinical practice, hence explaining the high validity of the multiple-choice format.   SUMMARY The evidence does not support the proposition that the open-ended assessment format is superior to the multiple-choice format, at least in exit-level summative assessment, in terms of either its ability to test higher-order cognitive functioning or its validity. This is explicable using a theory of mental models, which might predict that the multiple-choice format will have higher validity, a statement for which some empiric support exists. Given the superior reliability and cost-effectiveness of the multiple-choice format consideration should be given to phasing out open-ended format questions in summative assessment. Whether the same applies to non-exit-level assessment and formative assessment is a question which remains to be answered; particularly in terms of the educational effect of testing, an area which deserves intensive study.
BACKGROUND Effective clinical leadership is associated with better patient care. We implemented and evaluated a pilot clinical leadership course for second year internal medicine residents at a large United States Academic Medical Center that is part of a multi-hospital health system.   METHODS The course met weekly for two to three hours during July, 2013. Sessions included large group discussions and small group reflection meetings. Topics included leadership styles, emotional intelligence, and leading clinical teams. Course materials were designed internally and featured 'business school style' case studies about everyday clinical medicine which explore how leadership skills impact care delivery. Participants evaluated the course's impact and quality using a post-course survey. Questions were structured in five point likert scale and free text format. Likert scale responses were converted to a 1-5 scale (1 = strongly disagree; 3 = neither agree nor disagree; 5 = strongly agree), and means were compared to the value 3 using one-way T-tests. Responses to free text questions were analyzed using the constant comparative method.   RESULTS All sixteen pilot course participants completed the survey. Participants overwhelmingly agreed that the course provided content and skills relevant to their clinical responsibilities and leadership roles. Most participants also acknowledged that taking the course improved their understanding of their strengths and weaknesses as leaders, different leadership styles, and how to manage interpersonal conflict on clinical teams. 88% also reported that the course increased their interest in pursuing additional leadership training.   CONCLUSIONS A clinical leadership course for internal medicine residents designed by colleagues, and utilizing case studies about clinical medicine, resulted in significant self-reported improvements in clinical leadership competencies.
BACKGROUND The IOM recommends public health training for all physicians. Data characterizing such training of internal medicine (IM) residents are lacking.   PURPOSE To describe the current state of public health education at IM residency programs, characterize programs offering public health education, and quantify interest in expanding training opportunities.   METHODS IM residency program directors from the 380 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education-accredited residency programs in the U.S were invited to participate in a cross-sectional survey. Responses were received from 127 programs (33%). Data were collected July-December 2012 and analyzed in January 2013. Participants were queried on domestic public health training offered, perceived resident interest in and satisfaction with this training, and interest in expanding training.   RESULTS Eighty-four respondents (66%) provide some form of public health training, but structure and content vary widely. In many programs offering public health training, few residents (<10%) receive it. Although 93 programs (73%) integrate public health into core curricula, only three topics were common to a majority of these programs. Sixty-six respondents (52%) offer clinical training at community-based health centers. Most residency program directors (90%) are very or somewhat interested in expanding their public health training.   CONCLUSIONS This study characterizes the structures and content of public health training across IM residency programs. The wide range highlights the diverse definition of 'public health training' used by IM residency program directors and lack of universal public health competencies required for IM physicians. Opportunities exist for collaboration among residency programs and between IM and public health educators to share best practices.
INTRODUCTION Depression and anxiety are routinely managed by physicians in Family Medicine (FM) or General Internal Medicine (GIM). Because FM requires more behavioral health training than GIM, we sought to determine if prescribing patterns for patients with anxiety, depression, or both differed between FM vs. GIM providers.   METHODS In a cross-sectional design, patient data and provider type were obtained from 2008 to 2013 electronic medical record patient data registry (n=27,225 (FM=10,994, GIM=16,231)) Prescription orders were modeled for specific benzodiazepines and antidepressants and by drug class. Covariates included gender, age, race, marital status and comorbidity index. Separate logistic regression models were computed, before and after adjusting for covariates, to estimate the odds of FM vs. GIM providers prescribing benzodiazepine or antidepressant medication to patients with anxiety, depression, and both disorders.   RESULTS After adjusting for covariates, patients with anxiety alone, depression alone, and both had significantly greater odds of receiving an antidepressant (OR=2.08;95%CI:1.46-2.96, OR=2.13;95%CI:1.48-3.06, and OR=2.26;95%CI:1.09-4.66, respectively) if treated by FM vs. GIM. Benzodiazepine prescription did not differ by physician type.   LIMITATIONS It is not known if results will generalize to other regions of the United States.   CONCLUSIONS Patients with anxiety, depression, and both seen by FM providers, as compared to GIM providers, are more likely to receive antidepressant medications. Further investigation into the determinants of these differences is warranted. Under-treatment in GIM may result in less advantageous outcomes.
BACKGROUND Despite its importance, little is known about internal medicine (IM) residents' ability to assess and communicate a patient's overnight risk during the resident-to-resident handoff.   OBJECTIVE To evaluate IM residents' ability to identify patients at risk for clinical deterioration using the Patient Acuity Rating (PAR) tool (scored on a 1-7 symmetric scale; 1='Extremely unlikely', 7='Extremely likely'), and to measure how well IM residents conveyed a patient's potential for clinical deterioration during day-to-night handoff.   DESIGN AND PARTICIPANTS Observational cohort study of 46 postgraduate year 1 (PGY-1) and 32 postgraduate year 3 (PGY-3) internal medicine residents rotating on one of four general medicine services from October 2013 through January 2014.   MAIN MEASURES Primary outcomes were (1) level of agreement between resident handoff giver and receiver regarding patients' clinical risk and (2) accuracy of resident-assigned PAR score in predicting a patient's risk of clinical deterioration over the subsequent 24 hours.   KEY RESULTS Analysis of PGY-1 giver-receiver handoff agreement revealed an intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) (95 % CI) of 0.51 (0.45-0.56), while PGY-3 giver-receiver agreement yielded an ICC (95 % CI) of 0.42 (0.36-0.47). Based on 865 ratings of 378 patients, PGY-1 handoff giver PAR scores of 5 and 6+ were significantly associated with increased odds of clinical deterioration within 24 hours (aOR = 6.5 and 12.4; P = 0.03 and 0.005, respectively). For the 1,170 PAR ratings of 438 patients assigned by PGY-3 handoff givers, PAR scores of 4, 5, and 6+ were significantly associated with increased odds of an event within 24 hours (aORs = 6.0, 9.6, and 18.1; P = 0.03, 0.01, and 0.0008, respectively).   CONCLUSIONS The PAR is a useful tool to quantify IM residents' judgment of patient stability, and may be particularly valuable during resident handoff, given that the level of agreement between giver and receiver regarding patient risk is only fair.
PURPOSE Clinical examination skills are poorly evaluated by theoretical tests. We observed the clinical examination of real patients by 6th year medical students.   METHODS Four internists involved in teaching activities defined 11 clinical examination items, with two objective performance criteria each. The students were evaluated in two internal medicine departments during the rotation preceding or following their national graduation test. Scores by item and by criterion and an overall score were calculated and correlated with their rank at the national graduation test.   RESULTS Thirty-two students were evaluated in one department and 18 in the other; each evaluation lasted approximately 30 minutes. The results were similar in both departments. Only 2 items got a score over 75% in this students' sample (acute respiratory failure, peripheral pulses); 4 items were satisfied at less than 50% (lymph nodes, right heart failure, liver failure, and attention). The mean overall score was 6.5/11 (standard deviation 1.5). National rankings were good (median 1605/8001, interquartile 453-3036) but uncorrelated with the global score (Spearman coefficient -0.13; P=0.39).   CONCLUSION Bedside evaluation of the students reveals substantial deficiencies, a few months or weeks before taking their position as residents. Several elementary skills are mastered by a minority of them (search for an asterixis, distended jugular veins, deep tendon reflexes), even among those successful at the national graduation test. Bedside evaluation of clinical examination skills should be more systematically performed.
Based on the results of studies from the 1960s-1980s the current four drug combination therapy was established as standard or short course tuberculosis therapy worldwide. The regional epidemiology and the often unique conditions within a national health system create the need for specific adjustments. Over the last years these were realized by the German central committee against tuberculosis (DZK) in the recommendations for tuberculosis therapy. Because of the recent development of migration into Germany from countries with higher tuberculosis incidences an increase in tuberculosis cases is to be expected. The expected increase in tuberculosis cases will lead to more contact with tuberculosis patients even in the outpatient setting. New S2k guidelines guided by the Association of the Scientific Medical Societies in Germany (Arbeitsgemeinschaft der Wissenschaftlichen Medizinischen Fachgesellschaften, AWMF) for the treatment of tuberculosis for children and adults are under development. Before the release of the comprehensive guidelines, practical evidence for the diagnosis and treatment of uncomplicated tuberculosis is summarized in this document to meet the challenges of the recent developments.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE Despite the growth of palliative medicine, 39% of hospitals do not have palliative care teams for consultation or to provide resident education. We examined the impact of resident-led education in palliative care principles on attitudes toward and comfort with palliative medicine and end-of-life care among internal medicine residents.   METHODS An educational module designed by the authors was presented to other internal medicine residents in the program. Pre- and post-intervention survey data measuring residents' agreement with various statements regarding palliative medicine and end-of-life care were analyzed. Residents' agreement with various statements regarding palliative medicine and end-of-life care on a 5-point Likert scale was analyzed.   RESULTS Following the intervention, participants reported improved comfort with general knowledge of palliative medicine (p<0.01), specific resources available to patients (p<0.001), and explaining the difference between palliative care and end-of-life care (p<0.001). In each of the seven specific domains of palliative medicine covered in the educational session, residents reported a statistically significant increase in comfort in all of the areas addressed (p<0.05).   CONCLUSION This study demonstrates that a resident-led curriculum in palliative medicine can improve resident comfort within this still-under-represented area of medicine.
Advances in ultrasonographic technology have allowed for hand-held cardiac ultrasonography (HHCU) units that fit into a physician's laboratory coat. Recently, studies to educate internal medicine residents have shown promise. The optimal duration and methodology for teaching HHCU skills has not been established. Over a 1-year period, internal medicine residents were recruited during their cardiology ward rotation into a single-centre nonblinded randomized trial. The 2 condensed teaching strategies were (1) a conventional ward-based program and (2) a technology-driven simulation-based strategy. Outcomes were evaluated by (1) an objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) to evaluate interpretation ability (assessing both type I and type II error rates) and (2) demonstration of HHCU skills graded by 2 level III echocardiographers. Twenty-four internal medicine residents were randomized. After teaching, the conventional teaching group had a significant absolute increase in the ability to make a singular correct diagnosis (20%; P < 0.001). In the technology arm, making a singular correct diagnosis increased 24% from baseline (P혻= 0.001). Interpretation skill was not significantly different between groups. The false-positive rate increased by an absolute 14% and 17% in the conventional and technology groups, respectively (P혻= 0.079 and P혻= 0.008). Our findings suggest that HHCU interpretation skills improve after either a conventional ward-based or a technology-driven approach. However, our study emphasizes the important limitations of both teaching programs, because we detected a trend toward an increase in the false-positive rate after both approaches. This suggests that a short duration of training may not be sufficient for HHCU to be performed in a safe manner.
Many studies address the effect of weekend admission on patient outcomes. This population-based study aimed to evaluate the relationship between weekend admission and the treatment process and outcomes of general internal medicine patients in Taiwan.A total of 82,340 patients (16,657 weekend and 65,683 weekday admissions) aged 20 years and admitted to the internal medicine departments of 17 medical centers between 2007 and 2009 were identified from the Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database. A generalized estimating equation (GEE) analysis was used to compare patients admitted on weekends and those admitted on weekdays.Patients who were admitted on weekends were more likely to undergo intubation (odds ratio [OR]: 1.27; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.16-1.39; P<0.001) and/or mechanical ventilation (OR, 1.25; 95% CI, 1.15-1.35; P<0.001), cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (OR: 1.45; 95% CI: 1.05-2.01; P=0.026), and be transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU) (OR: 1.16; 95% CI: 1.03-1.30; P=0.015) compared with those admitted on weekdays. Weekend-admitted patients also had higher odds of in-hospital mortality (OR: 1.19; 95% CI: 1.09-1.30; P<0.001) and hospital treatment cost (OR: 1.04; 95% CI: 1.01-1.06; P=0.008) than weekday-admitted patients.General internal medicine patients who were admitted on weekends experienced more intensive care procedures and higher ICU admission, in-hospital mortality, and treatment cost. Intensive care utilization may serve as early indicator of poorer outcomes and a potential entry point to offer preventive intervention before proceeding to intensive treatment.
The aim of this study was to explore the students' acceptance of Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE) as a method of assessment of clinical competence in internal medicine. This cross sectional study was conducted from June to August 2013, at King Khalid University, Abha, KSA, through a self-administered questionnaire which was completed by fourth year medical students, immediately after the OSCE. Student feedback confirmed their acceptance of OSCE. This was encouraging to the department to consider implementing OSCE for graduating students.
BACKGROUND Despite reported effectiveness, weight loss surgery (WLS) still remains one of the least preferred options for outpatient providers, especially in Germany. The aim of this study was to examine the effect of stigma and knowledge on recommendation of WLS and referral to a surgeon by general practitioners (GPs) and internists.   METHOD The sample consists of 201 GPs and internists from Germany. The questionnaire included questions on the perceived effectiveness of WLS, the frequency of recommendations of WLS, and the frequency of referral to WLS. Stigma, as well as knowledge was also assessed in this context. Linear and logistic regression models were conducted. A mediation analysis was carried out within post hoc analysis.   RESULTS Knowledge (b=0.258, p<0.001) and stigma towards surgery (b=-0.129, p=0.013) were related to the frequency of recommendation of WLS. Additionally, respondents, who were more likely to express negative attitudes towards WLS, were less likely to recommend WLS and thus refer patients to WLS (b=-0.107, p<0.05). Furthermore, respondents with more expertise on WLS were more likely to recommend and thus refer patients to WLS (b=0.026, p<0.05).   CONCLUSION This study showed that stigma plays a role when it comes to defining treatment pathways for patients with obesity. The question remains how this might influence the patients and their decision regarding their treatment selection. Interventions are required to make treatment decisions by physicians or patients independent of social pressure due to stigma.
IMPORTANCE Cellulitis is a common and costly problem, often diagnosed in the outpatient setting. Many cutaneous conditions may clinically mimic cellulitis, but little research has been done to assess the magnitude of the problem.   OBJECTIVE To determine if obtaining dermatology consultations in the outpatient primary care setting could assist in the diagnosis of pseudocellulitic conditions and reduce the rate of unnecessary antibiotic use.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Nonblinded randomized clinical trial of competent adults who were diagnosed as having cellulitis by their primary care physicians (PCPs), conducted at outpatient internal medical primary care offices affiliated with a large academic medical center.   INTERVENTIONS Outpatient dermatology consultation.   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Primary outcomes were final diagnosis, antibiotic use, and need for hospitalization.   RESULTS A total of 29 patients (12 male and 17 female) were enrolled for participation in this trial. Nine patients were randomized to continue with PCP management (control group), and 20 patients were randomized to receive a dermatology consultation (treatment group). Of the 20 patients in the dermatology consultation group, 2 (10%) were diagnosed as having cellulitis. In the control group, all 9 patients were diagnosed as having cellulitis by PCPs, but dermatologist evaluation determined that 6 (67%) of these patients had a psuedocellulitis rather than true infection. All 9 patients (100%) in the control group were treated for cellulitis with antibiotics vs 2 patients (10%) in the treatment group (P<.001). One patient in the control group was hospitalized. All patients in the treatment group reported improvement of their cutaneous condition at the 1-week follow-up examination.   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Dermatology consultation in the primary care setting improves the diagnostic accuracy of suspected cellulitis and decreases unnecessary antibiotic use in patients with pseudocellulitic conditions. Obtaining an outpatient dermatology consultation may be a cost-effective strategy that improves quality of care.   TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier:NCT01795092.
In recent years, thanks to the development of miniaturized ultrasound devices, comparable to personal computers, tablets and even to smart phones, we have seen an increasing use of bedside ultrasound in internal medicine departments as a novel kind of ultrasound stethoscope. The clinical ultrasound-assisted approach has proved to be particularly useful in assessing patients with nodules of the neck, dyspnoea, abdominal pain, and with limb edema. In several cases, it has allowed a simple, rapid and precise diagnosis. Since 2005, the Italian Society of Internal Medicine and its Ultrasound Study Group has been holding a Summer School and training courses in ultrasound for residents in internal medicine. A national network of schools in bedside ultrasound was then organized for internal medicine specialists who want to learn this technique. Because bedside ultrasound is a user-dependent diagnostic method, it is important to define the limits and advantages of different new ultrasound devices, to classify them (i.e. Echoscopy and Point of Care Ultrasound), to establish appropriate different levels of competence and to ensure their specific training. In this review, we describe the point of view of the Italian Internal Medicine Society on these topics.
Gaucher disease is an autosomal recessive disorder, characterized by decreased levels of the lysosomal enzyme glucocerebrosidase. This deficiency results in a decreased breakdown of this glycosphingolipid glucocerebroside, which accumulates in the lysosomes of the monocyte-macrophage system. It is the most common form of sphingolipidosis. Clinically, the principle signs of Gaucher's disease are hepatosplenomegaly, bone involvement, hematological changes and CNS involvement. The diagnosis of Gaucher disease has to be confirmed by the measurement of the activity of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase in leukocytes or fibroblasts and genetic testing. An effective therapy for Gaucher disease has now been available for more than 10 years. It consists of life-long intravenous replacement of the deficient enzyme--glucocerebrosidase. If enzyme replacement therapy is started early enough, it leads to significant improvement in patient's general condition and quality of life. The aim of this document is to provide to the Croatian medical audience the guidelines for diagnosis and management of adult patients with Gaucher disease. These guidelines are produced by specialists who have long lasting experience with patients with rare metabolic diseases working in the Division of Metabolic Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital Center Zagreb which is the Referral Center for Rare and Metabolic diseases of the Ministry of Health, Republic of Croatia. They were endorsed by the Croatian Society for Rare Diseases, Croatian Medical Association. These are the first guidelines published in Croatia on diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of Gaucher disease.
BACKGROUND SNAPPS is a learner-centered approach to case presentations that was shown, in American studies, to facilitate the expression of clinical reasoning and uncertainties in the outpatient setting.   AIM To evaluate the SNAPPS technique in an Asian setting.   METHODS We conducted a quasi-experimental trial comparing the SNAPPS technique to the usual-and-customary method of case presentations for fifth-year medical students in an ambulatory internal medicine clerkship rotation at Khon Kaen University, Thailand. We created four experimental groups to test main and maturation effects. We measured 12 outcomes at the end of the rotations: total, summary, and discussion presentation times, number of basic clinical findings, summary thoroughness, number of diagnoses in the differential, number of justified diagnoses, number of basic attributes supporting the differential, number of student-initiated questions or discussions about uncertainties, diagnosis, management, and reading selections.   RESULTS SNAPPS users (90 case presentations), compared with the usual group (93 presentations), had more diagnoses in their differentials (1.81 vs. 1.42), more basic attributes to support the differential (2.39 vs. 1.22), more expression of uncertainties (6.67% vs. 1.08%), and more student-initiated reading selections (6.67% vs. 0%). Presentation times did not differ between groups (12 vs. 11.2 min). There were no maturation effects detected.   CONCLUSIONS The use of the SNAPPS technique among Thai medical students during their internal medicine ambulatory care clerkship rotation did facilitate the expression of their clinical reasoning and uncertainties. More intense student-preceptor training is needed to better foster the expression of uncertainties.
The dramatic demographic changes that are occurring in the third millennium are modifying the mission of generalist professionals such as primary care physicians and internists. Multiple chronic diseases and the related prescription of multiple medications are becoming typical problems and present many challenges. Unfortunately, the available evidence regarding the efficacy of medications has been generated by clinical trials involving patients completely different from those currently admitted to internal medicine: much younger, affected by a single disease and managed in a highly controlled research environment. Because only registries can provide information on drug effectiveness in real-life conditions, REPOSI started in 2008 with the goal of acquiring data on elderly people acutely admitted to medical or geriatric hospital wards in Italy. The main goals of the registry were to evaluate drug prescription appropriateness, the relationship between multimorbidity/polypharmacy and such cogent outcomes as hospital mortality and re-hospitalization, and the identification of disease clusters that most often concomitantly occur in the elderly. The findings of 3-yearly REPOSI runs (2008, 2010, 2012) suggest the following pertinent tasks for the internist in order to optimally handle their elderly patients: the management of multiple medications, the need to become acquainted with geriatric multidimensional tools, the promotion and implementation of a multidisciplinary team approach to patient health and care and the corresponding involvement of patients and their relatives and caregivers. There is also a need for more research, tailored to the peculiar features of the multimorbid elderly patient.
UNLABELLED To assess and quantify the impact of the literature in diagnostic decisions and treatment of patients admitted to an internal medicine service using the methodology of evidence-based medicine. From November 2012 to February 2013, patients who were hospitalised in the internal medicine service of Regional Hospital of Lugano (Switzerland) and generated questions on medical care were randomly assigned to two groups: an 'intervention group' (supported by the literature research) and a 'control group' (not supported by the literature research). The information obtained from the literature was submitted by email to all members of the medical team within 12 h after asking the question. Two hundred and one participants, from 866 patients hospitalised in the analysed period, divided into intervention (n=101) and control (n=100) groups, generated questions. In the intervention group, bibliographical research was possible for 98 participants. The medical team accepted the results and implemented the research for 90.8% of these participants (89/98). Statistical analyses were carried out on the intention-to-treat and on the per-protocol populations. Bibliographical research had a significant protective effect on transfer to an intensive care unit (relative risk (RR)=0.30; 95% CI 0.10 to 0.90; 짼=5.3, p=0.02) and hospital readmissions were also influenced by bibliographical research (RR=0.42; 95% CI 0.17 to 1.0; 짼=3.36, p=0.05) in the intention-to-treat population. Our results point out the importance of bibliographical support on the quality of medical care. In particular, they show its possible impact on clinical outcome.   TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER EOC Registry (registration number: 14-055).
RATIONALE Recent studies on video laryngoscopy have demonstrated improvements in both safety and success of endotracheal intubation in the critically ill.   OBJECTIVES We assessed the use of video laryngoscopy among internal medicine fellowship programs training physicians in critical care medicine.   METHODS A 19-question survey was e-mailed to program directors of pulmonary/critical care and internal medicine critical care fellowship training programs.   MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS A completed survey was returned by 36% of invited program directors. Sixty-nine percent of respondents reported a change in their approach to intubation training over the prior 3 years, with 56% of changes attributed to the adoption of a video laryngoscope. Other reported changes include new training methods (23%) and adoption of a checklist (10%). A video laryngoscope is available for clinical use in 89% of the responding programs. The video scope is used as the primary device in 16% and is never used in 9%. In the remainder of programs, the video laryngoscope is only used for difficult intubations or after failure of direct laryngoscopy (32%) or the primary device is determined by the preference of the operator (32%).   CONCLUSIONS The majority of internal medicine critical care program directors who recently responded to an e-mail survey reported that they have changed their approach to teaching endotracheal intubation, driven largely by the adoption of video laryngoscopy for upper airway visualization. Nevertheless, despite widespread availability, video laryngoscopy is used uncommonly as the primary visualization device for intubation at the programs represented by the respondents to this survey.
Until recently, warfarin has been the primary treatment of venous thromboembolism (VTE). Limited data are available regarding physician attitudes toward anticoagulant choice in the setting of novel oral anticoagulant (NOAC) availability. This study sought to evaluate attending physician attitudes toward NOACs. A survey was sent to attending physicians from internal medicine (primary care and hospitalist medicine), family medicine, cardiology, and hematology-oncology asking about their preference and reasoning for choice of oral anticoagulant for the treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE). Warfarin was the most common choice of initial treatment of both DVT (85.6%) and PE (89%). Among the specialties surveyed, cardiologists were more likely to use rivaroxaban as initial treatment of VTE as compared to other specialties including internal medicine or hematology (p=0.011 for DVT and 0.004 for PE). Cost-effectiveness and lack of a reversal agent were cited as the major disadvantages for NOAC use.
Targeting patients with prolonged hospitalizations may represent an effective strategy for reducing average hospital length of stay (LOS). We sought to characterize predictors of prolonged hospitalizations among general medicine patients to guide future improvement efforts. We conducted a retrospective cohort study using administrative data of general medicine patients discharged from inpatient status from our academic medical center between 2012 and 2014. Multivariable logistic regression was performed to assess the association between sociodemographic and clinical variables with prolonged LOS, defined as >21 days. Of 18,363 discharges, 416 (2.3%) demonstrated prolonged LOS. Prolonged hospitalizations accounted for 18.6% of total inpatient days and contributed 0.8 days to an average LOS of 4.8 days during the study period. Prolonged hospitalizations were associated with younger age (odds ratio [OR]: 0.80 per 10-year increase in age, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.73-0.87) and Medicaid insurance (OR: 1.99, 95% CI: 1.29-3.05, REF=덺edicare). Compared to patients without prolonged LOS, prolonged LOS patients were more likely to have methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus septicemia (OR: 8.83, 95% CI: 1.72-45.36); require a palliative care consult (OR: 4.63, 95% CI: 2.86-7.49), ICU stay (OR: 6.66, 95% CI: 5.22-8.50), or surgery (OR: 5.04, 95% CI: 3.90-6.52); and be discharged to a post-acute-care facility (OR: 10.37, 95% CI: 6.92-15.56). Prolonged hospitalizations in a small proportion of patients were an important contributor to overall LOS and particularly affected Medicaid enrollees with complex hospital stays who were not discharged home. Further studies are needed to determine the reasons for discharge delays in this population.
Physician misconduct is of serious concern to patient safety and quality of care. Currently, there are limited data on disciplinary proceedings involving internal medicine (IM) physicians.The aim of this study was to investigate the number and nature of disciplinary cases among IM physicians compared with those of other disciplined physicians.Our retrospective study reviewed information from all provincial Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons (CPS) and compiled a database of all disciplined physicians from 2000 to 2013 in Canada. Disciplinary rate differences (RDs) were calculated for IM physicians and compared with other physicians.From 2000 to 2013, overall disciplinary rates were low (9.6 cases per 10,000 physician years). There were 899 disciplinary cases, 49 of which involved 45 different IM physicians. IM physicians comprised 10.8% of all disciplined physicians and were disciplined at a lower rate than non-IM physicians, incurring 5.18 fewer cases per 10,000 physician years than other physicians (95% confidence interval [CI] 3.62-6.73; P < 0.001). They were significantly less likely to be disciplined for: unprofessional conduct (RD 1.16; CI 0.45-1.87; P = 0.001); unlicensed activity (RD 0.78; CI 0.37-1.19; P < 0.001); standard of care issues (RD 1.37; CI 0.49-2.26; P = 0.002); sexual misconduct (RD 1.65; CI 0.90-2.40; P < 0.001); miscellaneous (RD 0.80; CI 0.11-1.50; P = 0.020); mental illness (RD 0.06; CI 0.01-0.12; P = 0.025); inappropriate prescribing (RD 0.74; CI 0.15-1.33; P = 0.010); and criminal conviction (RD 0.33; CI 0.00-0.65; P = 0.048). No significant differences were found with respect to unclear violations, fraudulent behavior/prevarication, or offenses involving drugs/alcohol (all RDs less than 0.32). IM physicians were also less likely to incur the following penalties: voluntary license surrender (RD 0.53; CI 0.37-0.69; P < 0.001); suspension (RD 2.39; CI 1.26-3.51; P < 0.001); retraining/assessment (RD 1.58; CI 0.77-2.39; P < 0.001); restriction (RD 1.60; CI 0.74-2.46; P < 0.001); other (RD 0.52; CI 0.07-0.97; P = 0.030); formal reprimand (RD 2.78; CI 1.77-3.79; P < 0.001); or fine (RD 3.28; CI 1.89-4.67; P < 0.001). No significant differences were found with respect to revocation or mandated counseling/rehabilitation (all RDs less than 0.46).Generally, disciplinary rates among physicians were low. Compared with other physicians, IM physicians have significantly lower disciplinary rates overall and are less likely to incur the majority of disciplinary offenses and penalties.
BACKGROUND The impact of admission glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) on hospital outcome is controversial.   OBJECTIVES To evaluate the association between admission glucose and HbA1c levels and mortality 1 year after hospitalization in the internal medicine ward.   METHODS HbA1c level of consecutive patients was measured during the first 24 hours of admission to the internal medicine ward and divided at the cutoff point of 6.5%. Three groups of patients were prospectively identified: patients with preexisting diabetes mellitus (DM), patients with glucose > 140 mg/dl (hyperglycemia) on admission and no known diabetes (H), and patients without diabetes or hyperglycemia (NDM). The primary end-point was 1 year all-cause mortality.   RESULTS A total of 1024 patients were enrolled, 592 (57.8%) belonged to the DM group, 119 (11.6/6) to the H group and 313 (30.6%) to the NDM group. At 1 year, death occurred in 70 (11.9%) in the DM group, 12 (10.0%) in the H group and 15 (4.8%) in the NDM group (P = 0.002). Elevated admission glucose levels did not influence outcome in any of the groups. HbA1c levels were similar for survivors and non-survivors (P = 0.60). Within-group multivariate analysis adjusted for comorbidities and age showed that in the H group HbA1C levels of 6.5% or above were associated with increased mortality risk [hazard ratio (HR) 8.25, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.93-35.21]. In the DM group, HbA1c levels below 6.5% were associated with increased mortality risk (HR = 2.05, 95% CI 1.25-3.36).   CONCLUSIONS Glucose levels upon admission did not affect mortality. However, HbA1c levels below 6.5% had opposite effects on 1 year mortality in diabetes patients and patients with hyperglycemia.
Narrative medical writing can be utilized to help increase the value and patient-centeredness of health care. By supporting initiatives in areas such as population health management, quality improvement and health disparities, it provides benefits that are particularly relevant to physicians focused on health care improvement, reform and redesign. Graduate medical education (GME) represents a key time and opportunity for internists to learn and practice this form of writing. However, due to a number of local and systems factors, many have limited opportunities to engage in narrative medical writing compared to other non-clinical activities. By capitalizing on the momentum created by recent GME reform, several strategies can be utilized to overcome these barriers and establish narrative medical writing as a viable professional and communication skill.
OBJECTIVE Despite the high prevalence of chronic kidney disease in the elderly population, few data are available on the frequency of secondary hyperparathyroidism in the Spanish population affected by this problem. We undertook a study on this issue in patients attending the internal medicine departments in our area.   DESIGN AND METHODS An observational, cross-sectional survey performed at internal medicine departments on 415 patients with stage 3 and 4 chronic kidney disease. Clinical history and risk factors were collected using a standardized protocol. Serum creatinine, phosphate, calcium, intact parathormone (PTH) and 25-hydroxy-cholecalciferol (25-OH-vitD) levels were measured in all patients.   RESULTS Among stage 3 patients, 62.9% had PTH levels 70pg/mL and 32.7% levels 110pg/mL. Median PTH level in stage 4 patients was 120pg/mL (p <0.001), and 77.9% of these patients had PTH 70pg/mL (p <0.001) and 54.1% 110pg/mL (p=0.015). Adequate 25-hydroxy-cholecalciferol levels were found in only 7.2% of stage 3 patients and 4.1% of stage 4 patients. Only 7.2% of stage 3 patients had hyperphosphatemia, as compared to 25.4% of stage 4 patients (p <0.001).   CONCLUSIONS Hyperparathyroidism is a common complication of stage 3 and 4 chronic kidney disease which is not associated to detectable changes in serum calcium and phosphate levels. It is therefore advisable to measure PTH levels in all patients with decreased glomerular filtration rate.
BACKGROUND The electronic health record (EHR) has been viewed with both praise and skepticism. Multiple editorials have expressed concerns that EHR implementation and 'efficiency tools' such as copy forward and auto population have resulted in a decrement in note accuracy, relevance, and critical thinking.   OBJECTIVE To evaluate the perceptions of internal medicine housestaff and attendings on inpatient progress note quality at 4 academic institutions after the implementation of an EHR.   DESIGN Cross-sectional survey.   MEASUREMENTS We developed surveys that assessed housestaff and attendings opinion of current progress note quality, the impact of the EHR on quality, and the purposes of a progress note.   RESULTS We received 99 completed surveys from interns (66%), 155 from residents (49%), and 153 from attendings (70%) across 4 institutions. The majority of housestaff responded that the quality of notes was 'unchanged' or 'better' following the implementation of an EHR, whereas attendings believed note quality was 'unchanged' or 'worse.' Attendings' perceptions of housestaff notes were significantly lower than housestaff perceptions of their own notes across all domains. With regard to the effect of copy forward and autopopulation, the majority of housestaff viewed these to be 'neutral' or 'somewhat positive,' whereas attendings viewed these as 'neutral' or 'somewhat negative.' Housestaff and attendings had nearly perfect agreement regarding the purpose of the progress note.   CONCLUSIONS Attendings and housestaff disagree on the current quality of progress notes and the impact of an EHR on note quality, but agree on the purpose of a progress note.
CONTEXT Clinical supervisors oversee trainees' performance while granting them increasing opportunities to work independently. Although the factors contributing to supervisors' trust in their trainees to conduct clinical work have been identified, how the development of trust is shaped by these factors remains less clear.   OBJECTIVES This study was designed to determine how supervisors develop and experience trust in resident (postgraduate years 2 and 3) trainees in the clinical workplace.   METHODS Internal medicine in-patient supervisors at two institutions were interviewed about the meaning and experience of developing trust in resident trainees. Transcribed data were coded and analysed using a phenomenographic approach.   RESULTS Forty-three supervisors participated. Supervisors characterised the meaning of trust from the perspectives of trainee competence and leadership or from their own perspective of needing to provide more or less supervision. Supervisors initially considered trust to be usually independent of prior knowledge of the resident, and then used sources of information about trust to develop their judgements of trust. Sources, which incorporated inference, included supervisors' comparisons with a standard, direct observation of the trainee as a team leader or care provider, and stakeholder input from team members, patients and families. Barriers against and accelerators to trust formation related to the resident, supervisor, resident-supervisor relationship, context and task. Trust formation had implications for supervisors' roles, residents' increasingly independent provision of care, and team functioning.   CONCLUSIONS From a general starting point, supervisors develop trust in residents informed by observation, inference and information gathered from the team and patients. Judgements of trust yield outcomes defined by supervisors' changing roles, the increasingly independent provision of care by residents, and team functioning. The implications of these findings for graded resident autonomy aligned with learning needs can inform the design of training environments to enable readiness for unsupervised practice.
INTRODUCTION Instructor-led simulation-based mastery learning of advanced cardiac life support (ACLS) skills is an effective and focused approach to competency-based education. Directed self-regulated learning (DSRL) may be an effective and less resource-intensive way to teach ACLS skills.   METHODS Forty first-year internal medicine residents were randomized to either simulation-based DSRL or simulation-based instructor-regulated learning (IRL) of ACLS skills using a mastery learning model. Residents in each intervention completed pretest, posttest, and retention test of their performance in leading an ACLS response to a simulated scenario. Performance tests were assessed using a standardized checklist. Residents in the DSRL intervention were provided assessment instruments, a debriefing guide, and scenario-specific teaching points, and they were permitted to access relevant online resources. Residents in the IRL intervention had access to the same materials; however, the teaching and debriefing were instructor led.   RESULTS Skills of both the IRL and DSRL interventions showed significant improvement after the intervention, with an average improvement on the posttest of 21.7%. After controlling for pretest score, there was no difference between intervention arms on the posttest [F(1,37) = 0.02, P = 0.94] and retention tests [F(1,17) = 1.43, P = 0.25]. Cost savings were realized in the DSRL intervention after the fourth group (16 residents) had completed each intervention, with an ongoing savings of $80 per resident.   CONCLUSIONS Using a simulation-based mastery learning model, we observed equivalence in learning of ACLS skills for the DSRL and IRL conditions, whereas DSRL was more cost effective.
BACKGROUND Simulation training may improve proficiency at and reduce complications from central venous catheter (CVC) placement, but the scope of simulation's effect remains unclear. This randomized controlled trial evaluated the effects of a pragmatic CVC simulation program on procedural protocol adherence, technical skill, and patient outcomes.   METHODS Internal medicine interns were randomized to standard training for CVC insertion or standard training plus simulation-based mastery training. Standard training involved a lecture, a video-based online module, and instruction by the supervising physician during actual CVC insertions. Intervention-group subjects additionally underwent supervised training on a venous access simulator until they demonstrated procedural competence. Raters evaluated interns' performance during internal jugular CVC placement on actual patients in the medical intensive care unit. Generalized estimating equations were used to account for outcome clustering within trainees.   RESULTS We observed 52 interns placing 87 CVCs. Simulation-trained interns exhibited better adherence to prescribed procedural technique than interns who received only standard training (P = 0.024). There were no significant differences detected in first-attempt or overall cannulation success rates, mean needle passes, global assessment scores, or complication rates.   CONCLUSIONS Simulation training added to standard training improved protocol adherence during CVC insertion by novice practitioners. This study may have been too small to detect meaningful differences in venous cannulation proficiency and other clinical outcomes, highlighting the difficulty of patient-centered simulation research in settings where poor outcomes are rare. For high-performing systems, where protocol deviations may provide an important proxy for rare procedural complications, simulation may improve CVC insertion quality and safety.
BACKGROUND Primary care physicians (PCPs) play a critical role in the care cascade for patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC).   AIM To assess PCP knowledge and perspectives on CHC screening, diagnosis, referral, and treatment.   METHODS An anonymous survey was distributed to PCPs who participated in routine outpatient care at our hospital.   RESULTS Eighty (36혻%) eligible PCPs completed the survey. More than half were females (60혻%) aged 36-50 (55혻%) from family (44혻%) or internal (49혻%) medicine. Overall, PCPs correctly identified high-risk populations for screening, though 19혻% failed to identify baby boomers and 45혻% failed to identify hemodialysis patients as populations to screen. Approximately half reported they were able to screen at risk patients <50혻% of the time secondary to time constraints and difficulty assessing if patients had already been screened. 71혻% of PCPs reported they refer all newly diagnosed patients to specialty care. 70혻% of PCPs did not feel up to date with current treatment. The majority grossly underestimated efficacy, tolerability and ease of administration, and overestimated treatment duration. Only 9혻% felt comfortable treating CHC, even those without cirrhosis. Practice patterns were influenced by specialty and Veterans Affairs Hospital affiliation.   CONCLUSIONS Although the majority of PCPs are up to date with CHC screening recommendations, few are able to routinely screen in practice. Most PCPs are not up to date with treatment and do not feel comfortable treating CHC. Interventions to overcome screening barriers and expand treatment into primary care settings are needed to maximize access to and use of curative therapies.
The FAMULATUR PLUS is an innovative approach to teaching physical examination skills. The concept is aimed at medical students during the clinical part of their studies and includes a clinical traineeship (English for 'Famulatur') extended to include various courses ('PLUS'). The courses are divided into clinical examination courses and problembased-learning (PBL) seminars. The concept's special feature is the full integration of these courses into a 30-day hospital traineeship. The aim is to facilitate the transfer of knowledge from the courses into daily practice. Each week of the FAMULATUR PLUS is structured in line with the courses and focuses on a particular part of the body (e.g., abdomen). A physical examination course under the supervision of a physician is offered at the beginning of the week. Here, medical students learn the relevant examination techniques by practicing on each other (partner exercises). Subsequently, the techniques taught are applied independently during everyday work on the ward, corrected by the supervisor, if necessary, and thereby reinforced. The final POL seminar takes place towards the end of the week. Possible differential diagnoses are developed based on a clinical case study. The goal is to check these by taking a fictitious medical history and performing a physical examination, as well as to make a preliminary diagnosis. Finally, during the PBL seminar, medical students will be shown how physical examination techniques can be efficiently applied in the diagnosis of common cardinal symptoms (e.g., abdominal pain). The initial implementation of the FAMULATUR PLUS proved the practical feasibility of the concept. In addition, the accompanying evaluation showed that the participants of the pilot project improved with regard to their practical physical examination skills.
PURPOSE To investigate whether there is a difference in medical student teaching evaluations for male and female clinical physician faculty.   METHODS The authors examined all teaching evaluations completed by clinical students at one North American medical school in the surgery, obstetrics and gynecology, pediatrics, and internal medicine clinical rotations from 2008 to 2012. The authors focused on how students rated physician faculty on their 'overall quality of teaching' using a 5-point response scale (1=덽oor to 5=덭xcellent). Linear mixed-effects models provided estimated mean differences in evaluation outcomes by faculty gender.   RESULTS There were 14,107 teaching evaluations of 965 physician faculty. Of these evaluations, 7688 (54%) were for male physician faculty and 6419 (46%) were for female physician faculty. Female physicians received significantly lower mean evaluation scores in all four rotations. The discrepancy was largest in the surgery rotation (males=4.23, females=4.01, p=0.003). Pediatrics showed the next greatest difference (males=4.44, females=4.29, p=0.009), followed by obstetrics and gynecology (males=4.38, females=4.26, p=0.026), and internal medicine (males=4.35, females=4.27, p=0.043).   CONCLUSIONS Female physicians received lower teaching evaluations in all four core clinical rotations. This comprehensive examination adds to the medical literature by illuminating subtle differences in evaluations based on physician gender, and provides further evidence of disparities for women in academic medicine.
BACKGROUND Physician call schedules are a critical element for medical practice and hospital efficiency. We compared readmission rates prior to and after a change in physician call system at Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre.   METHODS We studied patients discharged over a decade (2004 through 2013) and identified whether or not each patient was readmitted within the subsequent 28 days. We excluded patients discharged for a surgical, obstetrical, or psychiatric diagnosis. We used time-to-event analysis and time-series analysis to compare rates of readmission prior to and after the physician call system change (January 1, 2009).   RESULTS A total of 89,697 patients were discharged, of whom 10,001 (11%) were subsequently readmitted and 4280 died. The risk of readmission was increased by about 26% following physician call system change (9.7% vs 12.2%, P <.001). Time-series analysis confirmed a 26% increase in the readmission rate after call system change (95% confidence interval, 22%-31%; P <.001). The increase in readmission rate after call system change persisted across patients with diverse ages, estimated readmission risks, and medical diagnoses. The net effect was equal to 7240 additional patient days in the hospital following call system change. A modest increase was observed at a nearby acute care hospital that did not change physician call system, and no increase in risk of death was observed with increased hospital readmissions.   CONCLUSION We suggest that changes in physician call systems sometimes increase subsequent hospital readmission rates. Further reductions in readmissions may instead require additional resources or ingenuity.
OBJECTIVE This study aims to assess residents' attitudes, knowledge, practices, and barriers in addressing intimate partner violence and create a curriculum targeting self-identified deficits.   METHODS The authors developed and distributed a survey to residents across multiple specialties at a large academic institution. A workshop was developed using obstetrics/gynecology residents' data, with post-intervention data collected to assess for changes.   RESULTS One hundred forty-seven residents (41혻%) completed the survey. Though all identified assessing intimate partner violence as physicians' responsibility, only 40혻% reported consistent screening with new female patients, 36혻% with pregnant patients, and 18혻% with post-partum patients. Half reported inadequate training and felt unprepared to counsel patients regarding intimate partner violence. Post-intervention data suggest gains in knowledge and perceived preparedness.   CONCLUSIONS Although residents appreciate the significance of intimate partner violence assessment, in this particular institution few consistently perform or feel comfortable screening. Development of comprehensive intimate partner violence curricula is therefore critical.
In this position paper, the Alliance for Academic Internal Medicine and the American College of Physicians examine the state of graduate medical education (GME) financing in the United States and recent proposals to reform GME funding. They make a series of recommendations to reform the current funding system to better align GME with the needs of the nation's health care workforce. These recommendations include using Medicare GME funds to meet policy goals and to ensure an adequate supply of physicians, a proper specialty mix, and appropriate training sites; spreading the costs of financing GME across the health care system; evaluating the true cost of training a resident and establishing a single per-resident amount; increasing transparency and innovation; and ensuring that primary care residents receive training in well-functioning ambulatory settings that are financially supported for their training roles.
OBJECTIVES Patient throughput and early discharges are important for decreasing emergency department wait times and creating available beds for new hospital admissions. The educational schedule of internal medicine trainees can interfere with timely discharges, but targeted interventions can help residents meet the hospital's patient flow needs. Our training program instituted daily morning discharge rounds on the inpatient service, requiring each team to prepare potential discharges 1혻day ahead and prioritizing these discharges the next day.   METHODS We conducted a retrospective, pre-post analysis 1혻month before and 3혻months after implementation in August 2013 to assess discharge order entry times, the proportion of discharges before 11:00혻am, and hospital departure times.   RESULTS One month post-implementation, discharge orders were entered 59혻minutes earlier (from 1:07혻pm to 12:08혻pm; P혻=혻0.001), the percentage of pre-11:00혻am discharges increased from 21% to 39% (P혻<혻0.01), and patients departed the hospital 50혻minutes earlier (from 3:21혻pm to 2:31혻pm; P혻=혻0.005). These effects, however, returned to pre-implementation times during the subsequent 2혻months.   CONCLUSIONS A targeted intervention can significantly improve early discharges and should be replicable at other academic medical centers. Reinforcement is needed for these gains to be sustainable, however.
BACKGROUND Hypertension (HTN) control is achieved in 30-50% of all diagnosed and treated patients in Europe today. There is no large, recent, and properly conducted Austrian study available, with the last representative data being obtained in the 1990s. We sought to close this gap of evidence in Europe by providing information on HTN control in predominantly adherent patients.   METHODS AND RESULTS In October 2015, we enrolled 4303 patients with HTN who approached one of 158 participating pharmacies with a prescription filled for antihypertensive medication. The recruitment was completed within 10 days. Patient's mean age was 68듏기12 years, 53% were women. The mean SBP/DBP was 144듏기20/84듏기12둴mHg. On average, patients received 2.2듏기1.1 different antihypertensive substances, 45% received a fixed-dose combination drug. A total of 93% were aware of their disease, 90% claimed to have taken their medication prior to the survey, and 41% had their blood pressure (BP) controlled at a threshold of 140/90둴mHg. Predictors of HTN control were lower age [per decade increase, odds ratio (OR) 0.90, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.85; 0.96, P<0.01], female sex (OR 1.23, 95% CI 1.07;1.41), the intake of medication on the day of the conduct of the survey (OR 2.15, 95% CI 1.67;2.76), a university degree (OR 1.58, 95% CI 1.19; 2.08), and the consultation of a specialist for internal medicine/cardiology vs. a general practitioner (OR 1.20, 95% CI 1.04; 1.39).   CONCLUSION Despite a high degree of awareness and frequent use of fixed-dose combination drugs, only 41% of diagnosed, treated, and adherent HTN patients had their BP controlled. Immediate action is required to improve BP control in Austria.   VIDEO ABSTRACT : http://links.lww.com/HJH/A624.
OBJECTIVE We investigated hypothesized risk and resilience factors and their association with burnout in first year medicine and psychiatry residents at an urban teaching hospital in order to help guide the development of interventions targeted at reducing burnout.   METHODS We administered the Maslach Burnout Inventory (MBI), Perceived Stress Scale-10, Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue Scale, Penn State Worry Questionnaire, Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (depression symptoms), Revised Life Orientation Test (optimism), Self-Efficacy Questionnaire, Cognitive and Affective Mindfulness Scale, Interpersonal Reactivity Index Perspective-Taking Scale (empathy), and Measure of Current Status-Part A to first year medicine and psychiatry residents prior to initiation of clinical rotations in June.   RESULTS The response rate was 91 % (68 of 75 residents). Nineteen respondents (28 %) met criteria for burnout as measured by the MBI. Residents with burnout scored higher on self-report measures assessing perceived stress (Cohen's d=0.97; p=0.004), fatigue (d=0.79; p=0.018), worry (d=0.88; p=0.0009), and depression symptoms (d=0.84; p=0.035) and scored lower on questionnaires assessing mindfulness (d=-0.63; p=0.029) and coping ability (d=-0.79; p=0.003).   CONCLUSIONS In a cross-sectional assessment using self-report measures, we found that nearly a third of first year residents prior to starting their internships experience burnout. They exhibit lower levels of mindfulness and coping skills and higher levels of depression symptoms, fatigue, worry, and stress. These preliminary findings should encourage programs to initiate and study curricula that combine mindfulness and self-awareness coping strategies to enhance or protect against burnout as well as cognitive behavioral coaching strategies to offset symptoms of burnout when present.
OBJECTIVE To improve the clinical reasoning skills of postgraduate students in internal medicine through 2 kinds of extracurricular books: medical nonfiction and nonmedical fiction.   METHODS Clinical reasoning is difficult to define, understand, observe, teach, and measure. This is an educational innovation under an experimental framework based on a cognitive intervention grounded in constructivist and cognitivist theories. This study was conducted from June 1, 2014, through May 31, 2015. It was a pre-post, randomized, controlled, prospective, mixed-methods, small-group study. The intervention was through medical nonfiction and nonmedical fiction books. The process was structured to ensure that the students would read the material in phases and reflect on them. Clinical reasoning (pretests and posttests) was quantitatively assessed using the Diagnostic Thinking Inventory (DTI) and clinical reasoning exercises (CREs) and their assessment using a rubric. A qualitative design was used, and face-to-face semistructured interviews were conducted.   RESULTS Posttest total scores (DTI=188.92; CREs=53.92) were higher for the study group after the intervention compared with its own pretest scores (DTI=165.25; CREs=41.17) and with the pretest (DTI=159.27; CRE=40.73) and posttest (DTI=166.91; CREs=41.18) scores of the control group. Interviews with the study group confirmed that the intervention was acceptable and useful in daily practice.   CONCLUSION We introduced, evaluated, and proved an approach to teaching-learning clinical reasoning based on the assumption that the clinical reasoning skills of postgraduate students in internal medicine can be enhanced through 2 kinds of extracurricular books and that fun as well as interest will enhance learning. This study is not only about teaching-learning clinical reasoning but also about the humanities in medical education.
Jehovah's witnesses oppose receiving blood transfusions based on religious grounds. This refusal raises complex medical, legal and ethical issues for the treating medical staff. In the past physicians attempted to force patients and children to accept transfusions when deemed medically necessary through the use of court orders. However, in recent years the threshold for blood transfusion has been gradually raised by medical experts as expressed in consensus guidelines, which means that Jehovah's witnesses' aversion to transfusion would have been partially justified medically. This article will further discuss these current trends.
OBJECTIVE To evaluate differences between pediatricians and internists in the practice of and barriers to advance care planning (ACP) for adolescent patients with cancer.   STUDY DESIGN A self-reported questionnaire was administered to assess the practice of ACP, advance directives, and barriers to ACP for adolescent patients with cancer. All 3392 Japanese board-certified hematologists were surveyed, and 600 hematologists (227 pediatricians, 373 internists) who take care of adolescent patients with cancer with decision-making capacity were analyzed.   RESULTS If a patient's prognosis for survival was <3 months, pediatricians were significantly less likely to discuss ACP with their patients than internists, including discussions regarding the patient's medical condition (59% vs 70%), the patient's understanding of his/her medical condition (55% vs 66%), do not attempt resuscitation orders (17% vs 24%), and ventilator treatment if the patient's condition worsened (19% vs 25%). More than 75% of hematologists (both pediatricians and internists) discussed all ACP topics with patients' families. Similarly, with regard to advance directives, pediatricians were less likely than internists to discuss cardiopulmonary resuscitation (24% vs 47%) and the use of ventilators (31% vs 51%), vasopressors (24% vs 42%), and antibiotics (21% vs 31%) with their patients. Both pediatricians and internists discussed these issues more often with patients' families than with patients, especially cardiopulmonary resuscitation (98%) as well as the use of ventilators (98%) and vasopressors (91%).   CONCLUSIONS Pediatricians were less likely than internists to discuss ACP and advance directives with patients, and both pediatricians and internists tended to discuss ACP and advance directives more often with patients' families.
BACKGROUND Chronic pain is common in multimorbid patients. However, little is known about the implications of chronic pain and analgesic treatment on multimorbid patients. This study aimed to assess chronic pain therapy with regard to the interaction potential in a sample of inpatients with multiple chronic conditions.   METHODS AND FINDINGS We conducted a retrospective study with all multimorbid inpatients aged 18 years admitted to the Department of Internal Medicine of University Hospital Zurich in 2011 (n = 1,039 patients). Data were extracted from the electronic health records and reviewed. We identified 433 hospitalizations of patients with chronic pain and analyzed their combinations of chronic conditions (multimorbidity). We then classified all analgesic prescriptions according to the World Health Organization (WHO) analgesic ladder. Furthermore, we used a Swiss drug-drug interactions knowledge base to identify potential interactions between opioids and other drug classes, in particular coanalgesics and other concomitant drugs. Chronic pain was present in 38% of patients with multimorbidity. On average, patients with chronic pain were aged 65.7 years and had a mean number of 6.6 diagnoses. Hypertension was the most common chronic condition. Chronic back pain was the most common painful condition. Almost 90% of patients were exposed to polypharmacotherapy. Of the chronic pain patients, 71.1% received opioids for moderate to severe pain, 43.4% received coanalgesics. We identified 3,186 potential drug-drug interactions, with 17% classified between analgesics (without coanalgesics).   CONCLUSIONS Analgesic drugs-related DDIs, in particular opioids, in multimorbid patients are often complex and difficult to assess by using DDI knowledge bases alone. Drug-multimorbidity interactions are not sufficiently investigated and understood. Today, the scientific literature is scarce for chronic pain in combination with multiple coexisting medical conditions and medication regimens. Our work may provide useful information to enable further investigations in multimorbidity research within the scope of potential interactions and chronic pain.
OBJECTIVES Studies have shown that the overutilization of laboratory tests ('labs') for hospitalized patients is common and can cause adverse health outcomes. Our objective was to compare the ordering tendencies for routine complete blood counts (CBC) and chemistry panels by internal medicine residents and hospitalists.   METHODS This observational study included a survey of medicine residents and hospitalists and a retrospective analysis of labs ordering data. The retrospective data analysis comprised patients admitted to either the teaching service or nonteaching hospitalist service at a single hospital during 2014. The survey asked residents and hospitalists about their practices and preferences on labs ordering. The frequency and timing of one-time and daily CBC and basic chemistry panel ordering for teaching service and hospitalist patients were obtained from our data warehouse. The average number of CBCs per patient per day and chemistry panels per patient per day was calculated for both services and multivariate regression was performed to control for patient characteristics.   RESULTS Forty-four of 120 (37%) residents and 41 of 53 (77%) hospitalists responded to the survey. Forty-four (100%) residents reported ordering a daily CBC and chemistry panel rather than one-time labs at patient admission compared with 22 (54%) hospitalists (P < 0.001). For CBCs, teaching service patients averaged 1.72/day and hospitalist service patients averaged 1.43/day (P < 0.001). For basic chemistry panels, teaching service patients averaged 1.96/day and hospitalist service patients averaged 1.78/day (P < 0.001). Results were similar in multivariate regression models adjusting for patient characteristics.   CONCLUSIONS Residents' self-reported and actual use of CBCs and chemistry panels is significantly higher than that of hospitalists in the same hospital. Our results reveal an opportunity for greater supervision and improved instruction of cost-conscious ordering practices.
BACKGROUND This study explored the use of virtual patient generated data by investigating the association between students' unprofessional patient summary statements, which they entered during an on-line virtual patient case, and detection of their future unprofessional behavior.   METHOD At the USUHS, students complete a number of virtual patient encounters, including a patient summary, to meet the clerkship requirements of Internal Medicine, Family Medicine, and Pediatrics. We reviewed the summary statements of 343 students who graduated in 2012 and 2013. Each statement was rated with regard to four features: Unprofessional, Professional, Equivocal (could be construed as unprofessional), and Unanswered (students did not enter a statement). We also combined Unprofessional and Equivocal into a new category to indicate a statement receiving either rating. We then examined the associations of students' scores on these categories (i.e. whether received a particular rating or not) and Expertise score and Professionalism score reflected by a post-graduate year one (PGY-1) program director (PD) evaluation form. The PD forms contained 58 Likert-scale items designed to measure the two constructs (Expertise and Professionalism).   RESULTS The inter-rater reliability of statements coding was high (Cohen's Kappa=.97). The measure of receiving an Unprofessional or Equivocal rating was significantly correlated with lower Expertise score (r=-.19, P<.05) as well as lower Professionalism score (r=-.17, P<.05) during PGY-1.   CONCLUSION Incident reports and review of routine student evaluations are what most schools rely on to identify the majority of professionalism lapses. Unprofessionalism reflected in student entries may provide additional markers foreshadowing subsequent unprofessional behavior.
INTRODUCTION The implementation of competency-based internal medicine (IM) residency programme that focused on the assurance of a set of 6 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) core competencies in Singapore marked a dramatic departure from the traditional process-based curriculum. The transition ignited debates within the local IM community about the relative merits of the traditional versus competency-based models of medical education, as well as the feasibility of locally implementing a training structure that originated from a very different healthcare landscape. At the same time, it provided a setting for a natural experiment on how a rapid integration of 2 different training models could be achieved.   MATERIALS AND METHODS Our department reconciled the conflicts by systematically examining the existing training structure and critically evaluating the 2 educational models to develop a new training curriculum aligned with institutional mission values, national healthcare priorities and ACGME-International (ACGME-I) requirements.   RESULTS Graduate outcomes were conceptualised as competencies that were grouped into 3 broad areas: personal attributes, interaction with practice environment, and integration. These became the blueprint to guide curricular design and achieve alignment between outcomes, learning activities and assessments. The result was a novel competency-based IM residency programme that retained the strengths of the traditional training model and integrated the competencies with institutional values and the unique local practice environment.   CONCLUSION We had learned from this unique experience that when 2 very different models of medical education clashed, the outcome may not be mere conflict resolution but also effective consolidation and transformation.
OBJECTIVE The number of older people is growing fast in Turkey. In this context, internal medicine residents and specialists contact older people more frequently. Thus, healthcare providers' knowledge and attitudes toward older people is becoming more important. Studies that specifically investigate internal medicine residents' attitudes toward the elderly are scarce. We aimed to investigate the attitudes of internal medicine residents toward older people.   METHODS This cross-sectional multicenter study was undertaken in the internal medicine clinics of six university state hospitals that provide education in geriatric care. All internal medicine residents working in these hospitals were invited to participate in this questionnaire study between March 2013 and December 2013. We recorded the participants' age, sex, duration of internal medicine residency, existence of relatives older than 65 years, history of geriatrics course in medical school, geriatrics rotation in internal medicine residency, and nursing home visits.   RESULTS A total of 274 (82.3%) of the residents participated in this study, and 83.6% of them had positive attitudes toward older people. A geriatrics rotation during internal medicine residency was the only independent factor associated with positive attitudes toward the elderly in this multivariate analysis. A geriatrics course during medical school was associated with positive attitudes in the univariate analysis, but only tended to be so in the multivariate analysis.   CONCLUSION Geriatrics rotation during internal medicine residency was independently associated with positive attitudes toward older people. Generalization of geriatrics education in developing countries may translate into a better understanding and improved care for older patients.
PURPOSE The aim of this study was to develop an evidence-based communication skills training workshop to improve the communication skills of critical care fellows.   MATERIALS AND METHODS Pulmonary and critical care fellows (N = 38) participated in a 3-day communication skills workshop between 2008 and 2010 involving brief didactic talks, faculty demonstration of skills, and faculty-supervised small group skills practice sessions with simulated families. Skills included the following: giving bad news, achieving consensus on goals of therapy, and discussing the limitations of life-sustaining treatment. Participants rated their skill levels in a pre-post survey in 11 core communication tasks using a 5-point Likert scale.   RESULTS Of 38 fellows, 36 (95%) completed all 3 days of the workshop. We compared pre and post scores using the Wilcoxon signed rank test. Overall, self-rated skills increased for all 11 tasks. In analyses by participant, 95% reported improvement in at least 1 skill; with improvement in a median of 10 of 11 skills. Ninety-two percent rated the course as either very good/excellent, and 80% recommended that it be mandatory for future fellows.   CONCLUSIONS This 3-day communication skills training program increased critical care fellows' self-reported family meeting communication skills.
The American Thoracic Society (ATS), in collaboration with George Mason University, surveyed a random sample of ATS members to assess their perceptions of, clinical experiences with, and preferred policy responses to climate change. An e-mail containing an invitation from the ATS President and a link to an online survey was sent to 5,500 randomly selected U.S. members; up to four reminder e-mails were sent to nonrespondents. Responses were received from members in 49 states and the District of Columbia (n=915); the response rate was 17%. Geographic distribution of respondents mirrored that of the sample. Survey estimates' confidence intervals were 짹3.5% or smaller. Results indicate that a large majority of ATS members have concluded that climate change is happening (89%), that it is driven by human activity (68%), and that it is relevant to patient care ('a great deal'/'a moderate amount') (65%). A majority of respondents indicated they were already observing health impacts of climate change among their patients, most commonly as increases in chronic disease severity from air pollution (77%), allergic symptoms from exposure to plants or mold (58%), and severe weather injuries (57%). A larger majority anticipated seeing these climate-related health impacts in the next 2 decades. Respondents indicated that physicians and physician organizations should play an active role in educating patients, the public, and policy makers on the human health effects of climate change. Overall, ATS members are observing that human health is already adversely affected by climate change and support responses to address this situation.
This article focuses on current trends in various autoimmune diseases of interest for the dermatologist. In the antiphospholipid syndrome, many news: better characterization of the severe disease, involvement of the mTOR pathway in the vasculopathy-induced renal disease, and diversification of the therapeutic approaches: use of mTOR inhibitors and several biologics, new various antiplatelet and anticoagulants. In dermatomyositis, new autoantibodies are better characterized with a good correlation with clinical disease; the results of a large study on genetic predisposition to the disease are available. There are also some therapeutic innovations in systemic sclerosis: benefit of rituximab that seems well tolerated, the results of a large controlled European study about aggressive immunoablative chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cells have just been published, intralesional stem cells injections in the fingers of sclerodactylic patients. Finally, news in celiac disease that is constantly increasing and whose mild forms often have cutaneous manifestations, leading to diagnosis.
INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES Patients admitted to the Department of Otolaryngology (ENT) are increasing in age, comorbidity and complexity, leading to increased consultations/referrals to Internal Medicine (IM). An alternative to consultations/referrals is co-management. We studied the effect of co-management on length of stay (LoS) in hospital for patients admitted to ENT.   METHODS This was a retrospective observational study including patients 14 years old discharged from ENT between 1/1/2009 and 30/06/2013, with co-management from May/2011. We analysed age, sex, type of admission, whether the patient was operated, administrative weight associated with DRG, total number of discharge diagnoses, Charlson comorbidity index (CCI), deaths, readmissions and LoS.   RESULTS There were statistically significant differences between both groups in age (4.5 years; 95% confidence interval [95% CI] 2.8-6.3), emergency admissions (odds ratio [OR] 1.4; 95% CI 1.1-1.8), administrative weight (0.3637; 95% CI 0.0710-0.6564), number of diagnoses (1.3; 95% CI 1-1.6), CCI (0.4; 95% CI 0.2-0.6) and deaths (OR 4.1; 95% CI 1.1-15.7). On adjustment, co-management reduced ENT LoS in hospital by 28.6%, 0.8 days (95% CI 0.1-1.6%; P=.038). This reduction represents an ENT savings of at least 165,893.   CONCLUSIONS Co-management patients admitted to ENT are increasing in age, comorbidity and complexity. Co-management is associated with reduced LoS and costs in ENT, similar to those observed in other surgical services.
Board certification is at a critical juncture. As physicians face increased regulation and pressures from both inside and outside the profession, board certification and Maintenance of Certification (MOC) are coming under increased scrutiny from the public and the medical community. At this challenging time, it is important to remind ourselves what board certification is (and what it is not) and revisit the origins of this tangible expression of professional self-regulation, even as we contemplate how it needs to improve. Board certification has evolved over time and must continue to evolve; it is our collective responsibility as physicians that peer-developed standards meet the needs of both the profession and the public. In this article, we will reflect on the history of the American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM), especially which related to Cardiology, and describe some of ABIM柳s challenges and new directions.
CONTEXT Applicants to US residency training programmes are required to submit a personal statement, the content of which is flexible but often requires them to describe their career goals and aspirations. Despite their importance, no systematic research has explored common themes and gender differences inherent to these statements.   OBJECTIVES This study was conducted to analyse US applicants' Electronic Residency Application Service (ERAS) personal statements using two automated textual analysis programs, and to assess for common themes and gender-associated differences.   METHODS A retrospective cohort study of 2138 personal statements (containing 1,485,255 words) from candidates from 377 national and international medical schools applying to US internal medicine (IM) residency programmes through ERAS was conducted. A mathematical analysis of text segments using a recursive algorithm was performed; two different specifications of the text segments were used to conduct an internal validation.   RESULTS Five statistically significant thematic classes were identified through independent review by the researchers. These were best defined as referring to: the appeal of the residency programme; memorable patients; health care as public policy; research and academia, and family inspiration. Some themes were common to all applications. However, important gender-specific differences were identified. Notably, men were more likely to describe personal attributes and to self-promote, whereas women more frequently expressed the communicative and team-based aspects of doctoring. The results were externally validated using a second software program. Although these data comprise part of the national pool, they represent applicants to a single specialty at a single institution.   CONCLUSIONS By applying textual analysis to material derived from a national cohort, we identified common narrative themes in the personal statements of future US physicians, noting differences between men and women. Together, these data provide novel insight into the dominant discourse of doctoring in this generation of students applying for further training in US IM residency programmes, and depict a diverse group of applicants with multiple motivations, desires and goals. Furthermore, differences seen between men and women add to the growing understanding of bias in medical education. Training programmes may benefit by adapting curricula to foster such diverse interests.
AIM The aim of this study was to appraise the current regional practices of screening, diagnosis and follow-up of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) because the approach to GDM is frequently inconsistent.   MATERIAL AND METHODS A 21-item questionnaire was distributed to physicians taking care of pregnant women in seven hospitals in the United Arab Emirates and one hospital in Oman. Besides assessing their attitudes towards testing for GDM, the questionnaire assessed familiarity with the Hyperglycemia and Pregnancy Outcome study and the International Association of Diabetes in Pregnancy Study Groups GDM guidelines.   RESULTS One hundred and forty-eight (93%) of the 159 questionnaires distributed to the medical doctors (106 [72%] obstetricians and 42 [28%] internists) were returned. For GDM screening, six hospitals used five different tests; two hospitals utilized one single test. For GDM diagnosis, six hospitals employed the 2-h, 75-g oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) (four different criteria) while two hospitals used the 3-h, 100-g OGTT (single criteria). For post-delivery follow-up, the 2-h, 75-g OGTT and fasting plasma glucose were accepted by 103 (70%) and 38 (26%) of the 148 medical doctors, respectively. Ninety-eight (69%) of 143 responding physicians were aware of the Hyperglycemia and Pregnancy Outcome study, while 85 (61%) of 140 responders were familiar with the guidelines of the International Association of Diabetes in Pregnancy Study Groups; this knowledge was independent of specialty, seniority, academia, years in practice or country trained.   CONCLUSIONS Although this study is parochial, its implications are global; that is, further education of caregivers would make the discordant approach to GDM (within and between hospitals) more harmonious and improve the obstetric care of pregnant women.
PURPOSE The United States Department of Veterans Affairs Connecticut Healthcare System (VACHS) is one of five Centers of Excellence in Primary Care Education (CoEPCE) pilot sites. The overall goal of the CoEPCE program, which is funded by the Office of Academic Affiliations, is to develop and implement innovative approaches for training future health care providers in postgraduate education programs to function effectively in teams to provide exceptional patient care. This longitudinal study employs theoretically grounded qualitative methods to understand the effect of a combined nursing and medical training model on professional identity and team development at the VACHS CoEPCE site.   METHOD The authors used qualitative approaches to understand trainees' experiences, expectations, and impressions of the program. From September 2011 to August 2012, they conducted 28 interviews of 18 trainees (internal medicine [IM] residents and nurse practitioners [NPs]) and subjected data to three stages of open, iterative coding.   RESULTS Major themes illuminate both the evolution of individual professional identity within both types of trainees and the dynamic process of group identity development. Results suggest that initially IM residents struggled to understand NPs' roles and responsibilities, whereas NP trainees doubted their ability to work alongside physicians. At the end of one academic year, these uncertainties disappeared, and what was originally artificial had transformed into an organic interprofessional team of health providers who shared a strong sense of understanding and trust.   CONCLUSIONS This study provides early evidence of successful interprofessional collaboration among NPs and IM residents in a primary care training program.
Podiatry is the science dealing with the diagnostics and treatment of the foot and ankle and associated tissues and structures by all appropriate methods and also with the local manifestation of the overall processes in this area. Diabetic foot disease is defined as infection, ulceration or destruction of tissues of the foot associated with neuropathy and/or peripheral artery disease in the lower extremity of people with diabetes according to the latest edition of the International Consensus. Successful treatment and prevention of diabetic foot syndrome depends on a holistic approach, in which it is seen as part of the multiple organ involvement. Teamwork of series of experts is therefore necessary. Internist with diabetes and podiatric education plays a key role in this team in particular, when control diabetes and in the prevention and treatment of co-morbidities, in the diagnosis of malnutrition and in the nutritional therapy and in the early diagnosis and effective treatment of infections. Last but not least, internist in collaboration with other professionals works when treatment of lower limb ischemia, suitable offloading of the ulcer and topical therapy and in the prevention of ulcers. Recurrent ulcerations are the major problem in podiatry and it can occur in up to 40% of patients in the first year after healing. Follow-up of patients with diabetic foot syndrome by experienced internist can help reduce the serious consequences, including amputation and cardiovascular mortality.Key words: diabetic foot - internal medicine - podiatry.
Importance US internal medicine residency programs are now required to rate residents using milestones. Evidence of validity of milestone ratings is needed.   Objective To compare ratings of internal medicine residents using the pre-2015 resident annual evaluation summary (RAES), a nondevelopmental rating scale, with developmental milestone ratings.   Design, Setting, and Participants Cross-sectional study of US internal medicine residency programs in the 2013-2014 academic year, including 21284 internal medicine residents (7048 postgraduate-year 1 [PGY-1], 7233 PGY-2, and 7003 PGY-3).   Exposures Program director ratings on the RAES and milestone ratings.   Main Outcomes and Measures Correlations of RAES and milestone ratings by training year; correlations of medical knowledge ratings with American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) certification examination scores; rating of unprofessional behavior using the 2 systems.   Results Corresponding RAES ratings and milestone ratings showed progressively higher correlations across training years, ranging among competencies from 0.31 (95% CI, 0.29 to 0.33) to 0.35 (95% CI, 0.33 to 0.37) for PGY-1 residents to 0.43 (95% CI, 0.41 to 0.45) to 0.52 (95% CI, 0.50 to 0.54) for PGY-3 residents (all P values <.05). Linear regression showed ratings differed more between PGY-1 and PGY-3 years using milestone ratings than the RAES (all P values <.001). Of the 6260 residents who attempted the certification examination, the 618 who failed had lower ratings using both systems for medical knowledge than did those who passed (RAES difference, -0.9; 95% CI, -1.0 to -0.8; P<.001; milestone medical knowledge 1 difference, -0.3; 95% CI, -0.3 to -0.3; P<.001; and medical knowledge 2 difference, -0.2; 95% CI, -0.3 to -0.2; P<.001). Of the 26 PGY-3 residents with milestone ratings indicating deficiencies on either of the 2 medical knowledge subcompetencies, 12 failed the certification examination. Correlation of RAES ratings for professionalism with residents' lowest professionalism milestone ratings was 0.44 (95% CI, 0.43 to 0.45; P<.001).   Conclusions and Relevance Among US internal medicine residents in the 2013-2014 academic year, milestone-based ratings correlated with RAES ratings but with a greater difference across training years. Both rating systems for medical knowledge correlated with ABIM certification examination scores. Milestone ratings may better detect problems with professionalism. These preliminary findings may inform establishment of the validity of milestone-based assessment.
Importance Shift-to-shift transitions in care among house staff are associated with adverse events. However, the association between end-of-rotation transition (in which care of the patient is transferred) and adverse events is uncertain.   Objective To examine the association of end-of-rotation house staff transitions with mortality among hospitalized patients.   Design, Setting, and Participants Retrospective multicenter cohort study of patients admitted to internal medicine services (N=230701) at 10 university-affiliated US Veterans Health Administration hospitals (2008-2014).   Exposures Transition patients (defined as those admitted prior to an end-of-rotation transition who died or were discharged within 7 days following transition) were stratified by type of transition (intern only, resident only, or intern+뎣esident) and compared with all other discharges (control). An alternative analysis comparing admissions within 2 days before transition with admissions on the same 2 days 2 weeks later was also conducted.   Main Outcomes and Measures The primary outcome was in-hospital mortality. Secondary outcomes included 30-day and 90-day mortality and readmission rates. A difference-in-difference analysis assessed whether outcomes changed after the 2011 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) duty hour regulations. Adjustments included age, sex, race/ethnicity, month, year, length of stay, comorbidities, and hospital.   Results Among 230701 patient discharges (mean age, 65.6 years; men, 95.8%; median length of stay, 3.0 days), 25938 intern-only, 26456 resident-only, and 11517 intern+뎣esident end-of-rotation transitions occurred. Overall mortality was 2.18% in-hospital, 9.45% at 30 days, and 14.43% at 90 days. Adjusted hospital mortality was significantly greater in transition vs control patients for the intern-only group (3.5% vs 2.0%; odds ratio [OR], 1.12 [95% CI, 1.03-1.21]) and the intern+뎣esident group (4.0% vs 2.1%; OR, 1.18 [95% CI, 1.06-1.33]), but not for the resident-only group (3.3% vs 2.0%; OR, 1.07 [95% CI, 0.99-1.16]). Adjusted 30-day and 90-day mortality rates were greater in all transition vs control comparisons (30-day mortality: intern-only group, 14.5% vs 8.8%, OR, 1.17 [95% CI, 1.13-1.22]; resident-only group, 13.8% vs 8.9%, OR, 1.11 [95% CI, 1.04-1.18]; intern+뎣esident group, 15.5% vs 9.1%, OR, 1.21 [95% CI, 1.12-1.31]; 90-day mortality: intern-only group, 21.5% vs 13.5%, OR, 1.14 [95% CI, 1.10-1.19]; resident-only group, 20.9% vs 13.6%, OR, 1.10 [95% CI, 1.05-1.16]; intern+뎣esident group, 22.8% vs 14.0%, OR, 1.17 [95% CI, 1.11-1.23]). Duty hour changes were associated with greater adjusted hospital mortality for transition patients in the intern-only group and intern+뎣esident group than for controls (intern-only: OR, 1.11 [95% CI, 1.02-1.21]; intern+뎣esident: OR, 1.17 [95% CI, 1.02-1.34]). The alternative analyses did not demonstrate any significant differences in mortality between transition and control groups.   Conclusions and Relevance Among patients admitted to internal medicine services in 10 Veterans Affairs hospitals, end-of-rotation transition in care was associated with significantly higher in-hospital mortality in an unrestricted analysis that included most patients, but not in an alternative restricted analysis. The association was stronger following institution of ACGME duty hour regulations.
OBJECTIVE Mental health conditions are prevalent among children hospitalized for medical conditions and surgical procedures, but little is known about their influence on hospital resource use. The objectives of this study were to examine how hospitalization characteristics vary by presence of a comorbid mental health condition and estimate the association of a comorbid mental health condition with hospital length of stay (LOS) and costs.   METHODS Using the 2012 Kids' Inpatient Database, we conducted a retrospective, nationally representative, cross-sectional study of 670161 hospitalizations for 10 common medical and 10 common surgical conditions among 3- to 20-year-old patients. Associations between mental health conditions and hospital LOS were examined using adjusted generalized linear models. Costs of additional hospital days associated with mental health conditions were estimated using hospital cost-to-charge ratios.   RESULTS A comorbid mental health condition was present in 13.2% of hospitalizations. A comorbid mental health condition was associated with a LOS increase of 8.8% (from 2.5 to 2.7 days, P < .001) for medical hospitalizations and a 16.9% increase (from 3.6 to 4.2 days, P < .001) for surgical hospitalizations. For hospitalizations in this sample, comorbid mental health conditions were associated with an additional 31729 (95% confidence interval: 29085 to 33492) hospital days and $90 million (95% confidence interval: $81 to $101 million) in hospital costs.   CONCLUSIONS Medical and surgical hospitalizations with comorbid mental health conditions were associated with longer hospital stay and higher hospital costs. Knowledge about the influence of mental health conditions on pediatric hospital utilization can inform clinical innovation and case-mix adjustment.
BACKGROUND Policy makers struggle with unplanned readmissions as a quality indicator since integrating preventability in such indicators is difficult. Most studies on the preventability of readmissions questioned physicians whether they consider a given readmission to be preventable, from which conclusions on factors predicting preventable readmissions were derived. There is no literature on the interobserver agreement of physician judgement.   AIM To assess the degree of agreement among physicians regarding predictability and preventability of medical readmissions.   DESIGN An online survey based on eight real-life case scenarios was distributed to European physicians.   METHODS Physicians were requested to rate from the first four (index admission) scenarios whether they expected these patients to be readmitted within 30 days (the predictability). The remaining four cases, describing a readmission, were used to assess the preventability. The main outcome was the degree of agreement among physicians determined using the intra class correlation coefficient (ICC).   RESULTS 526 European medical physicians completed the survey. Most physicians had internal medicine as primary specialism. The median years of clinical experience was 11. ICC for predictability of readmission was 0.67 (moderate to good) and ICC for preventability of readmission was 0.13 (poor).   CONCLUSION There was moderate to good agreement among physicians on the predictability of readmissions while agreement on preventability was poor. This study indicates that assessing preventability of readmissions based solely on the judgement of physicians is far from perfect. Current literature on the preventability of readmissions and conclusions derived on the basis of physician opinion should be interpreted with caution.
OBJECTIVE Graves disease (GD) is commonly seen in endocrine clinical practice. The objective of this study was to evaluate the current diagnosis and management of patients with GD in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA).   METHODS An electronic survey on GD management was performed using an online questionnaire of a large pool of practicing physicians. Responses from 352 eligible and willing physicians were included in this study. They were mostly endocrinologists (157) and internal medicine physicians (116).   RESULTS In addition to serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) and free thyroxine assays, most respondents would request serum antithyroid peroxidase antibody and TSH-receptor autoantibody (50% and 46%, respectively), whereas serum antithyroglobulin antibodies would be ordered by fewer respondents (36%). Thyroid ultra-sound would be requested by a high number of respondents (63.7%), while only a small percentage would order isotopic thyroid studies. Antithyroid drug (ATD) therapy was the preferred first-line treatment (52.7%), followed by radio-iodine (RAI) treatment (36.8%), 棺-blockers alone (6.9%), thyroidectomy (3.2%), and no therapy (1.3%). When RAI treatment was selected in the presence of mild Graves orbitopathy and/or associated risk factors for its occurrence/exacerbation, steroid prophylaxis was frequently used. The preferred ATD in pregnancy was propylthiouracil in the first trimester and carbimazole in the second and third trimesters. On most issues, choices of the MENA physicians fell between European and American practices.   CONCLUSION Hybrid practices are seen in the MENA region, perhaps reflecting training and affiliations. Management approaches most suitable for patients in this region are needed.   ABBREVIATIONS ATD = antithyroid drug CBZ = carbimazole FT3 = free T3 FT4 = free T4 GD = Graves disease GO = Graves orbitopathy MENA = Middle East and North Africa MMI = methimazole RAI = radioactive iodine RAIU = RAI uptake T3 = tri-iodothyronine T4 = thyroxine TG Ab = antithyroglobulin antibodies TRAb = TSH-receptor autoantibody TSH = thyroid-stimulating hormone PTU = propylthiouracil TID = thrice daily UAE = United Arab Emirates US = ultrasound.
A psychosomatic approach to the basic screening of distress for patient care in hospitals and other health services is presented. The aims of this study were to verify association between: (1) medical illnesses and distress; (2) patients' needs and distress; (3) type of illness and patients' needs; (4) patients' needs and sense of coherence. One hundred and eighty-nine patients (78 F and 111 M, average age 65 years짹8.43) were assessed by self-report questionnaires. We found that higher anxiety and/or depression levels were associated with urogenital (p=0.026), rheumatologic (p=0.006), oncological (p=0.011), neurological (p=0.026) and respiratory (p=0.013) illnesses. Higher distress scoring was associated with rheumatologic illnesses (p=0.024) and illnesses of the liver and digestive system (p=0.037) while a higher severity of distress was associated with oncological illnesses (p=0.011). Depression/anxiety were associated with the need to speak to a psychologist (p=0.050), to a spiritual advisor (p=0.009), to be more reassured by relatives (p=0.017), to feel less abandoned (p=0.036). Only low sense of coherence was associated with the need for greater dialogue with physicians (p=0.012), the need to participate less in treatment decisions (p=0.041), the need to feel less left to one's own devices (p=0.023). Several needs are associated with medical illnesses. In conclusion, these results indicate that early psychological screening could be important to avoid worse or chronic distress.
BACKGROUND Conversations eliciting patient preferences about cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) are among the most common examples of informed consent. However, this is rarely recognized and therefore may not include all key elements of informed consent, namely, details and benefits of the procedure, significant risks involved, likelihood of the outcome, and alternative therapeutic options.   OBJECTIVE Assess the content of code status discussions as reported by residents to examine whether residents meet requirements of informed consent.   DESIGN Prospective, observational, single-center survey study.   SETTING Internal medicine residents at an academic medical center.   INTERVENTION Medicine residents were surveyed and data were anonymously collected.   MEASUREMENTS Content of code status discussions and knowledge of CPR outcomes.   RESULTS Among 100 respondents, 66% have code status discussions with most patients upon hospital admission. Two main barriers to discussing code status were lack of time (49%) and lack of rapport (29%). Only 8% reported discussing all 5 elements of informed consent. Less than 10% of the residents correctly answered questions testing knowledge regarding outcomes after cardiac arrest. In logistical regression analyses, residents who included all key elements of informed consent reported more confidence that they provided the information needed for patients to make an informed decision (odds ratio 1.7 [95% confidence interval: 1.2-2.3]).   CONCLUSIONS Resident conversations regarding CPR are insufficient in the 5 key elements of informed consent. Framing code status discussions as examples of informed consent may be an effective strategy for educating residents or may improve the quality of these discussions, potentially leading to better patient decisions.
INTRODUCTION Residents benefit from regular, high quality feedback on all CanMEDS roles during their training. However, feedback mostly concerns Medical Expert, leaving the other roles behind. A feedback system was developed to guide supervisors in providing feedback on CanMEDS roles. We analyzed whether feedback was provided on the intended roles and explored differences in quality of written feedback.   METHODS In the feedback system, CanMEDS roles were assigned to five authentic situations: Patient Encounter, Morning Report, On-call, CAT, and Oral Presentation. Quality of feedback was operationalized as specificity and inclusion of strengths and improvement points. Differences in specificity between roles were tested with Mann-Whitney U tests with a Bonferroni correction (慣=0.003).   RESULTS Supervisors (n=126) provided residents (n=120) with feedback (591 times). Feedback was provided on the intended roles, most frequently on Scholar (78%) and Communicator (71%); least on Manager (47%), and Collaborator (56%). Strengths (78%) were mentioned more frequently than improvement points (52%), which were lacking in 40% of the feedback on Manager, Professional, and Collaborator. Feedback on Scholar was more frequently (p=0.000) and on Reflective Professional was less frequently (p=0.003) specific.   DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION Assigning roles to authentic situations guides supervisors in providing feedback on different CanMEDS roles. We recommend additional supervisor training on how to observe and evaluate the roles.
BACKGROUND To describe the prevalence of multimorbidity and to study the association between acute and chronic diseases in acutely hospitalized older patients   METHODS Prospective cohort study conducted between 2006 and 2008 in three teaching hospitals in the Netherlands. 639 patients aged 65 years and older, hospitalized for >48 h were included. Two physicians scored diseases, using ICD-9 codes. Chronic multimorbidity was defined as the presence of 2 chronic diseases, and acute multimorbidity as 1 acute diseases upon pre-existent chronic diseases. Logistic regression analyses were conducted to analyse cluster associations between a chronic index disease and the concurrent chronic or acute disease, corrected for age and sex.   RESULTS The mean age of patients was 78 years, over 50% had ADL impairments. Prevalence of chronic multimorbidity was 69%, and acute multimorbidity was present in 88%. Hypertension (OR 1.16; 95% CI 1.08-1.24), diabetes (type I or type 2) (OR 1.12; 95% CI 1.04-1.21), heart failure (OR 1.25; 95% CI 1.14-1.38) and COPD (OR 1.19; 95% CI 1.05-1.34) were associated with acute renal failure. Hypertension (OR 1.10; 95% CI 1.04-1.17) and atrial fibrillation (OR 1.17; 95% CI 1.08-1.27) were associated with an adverse drug event. Gastro-intestinal bleeding was clustered with atrial fibrillation (OR 1.11; 95% CI 1.04-1.19) and gastric ulcer (OR 1.16; 95% CI 1.07-1.25).   CONCLUSION Both acute and chronic multimorbidity was frequently present in hospitalized older patients. We identified specific associations between acute and chronic diseases. There is a need for strategies addressing multimorbidity during the exacerbation of chronic diseases.
Griffin Hospital, a community hospital affiliated with Yale School of Public Health and Yale School of Medicine, received Health Resources and Services Administration funding to strengthen and improve its combined internal medicine and general preventive medicine residency program by incorporating an integrative medicine curriculum. The purpose of project ASPIRE (Advancing Skills of Preventive medicine residents through Integrative medicine Education, Research and Evaluation) was to create, implement, and evaluate a needs-based, innovative training curriculum in integrative medicine. Through this robust new training, the authors aimed to produce preventive medicine-trained physicians with competencies in integrative medicine to collaboratively work with other integrative medicine practitioners in interdisciplinary teams to provide holistic, patient-centered care. The multifaceted collaborative curriculum was composed of didactics, grand rounds, journal club, objective structured clinical examinations, and two new practicum rotations in integrative medicine. The new practicum rotations included block rotations at the Integrative Medicine Center at Griffin Hospital and the Yale Stress Center. Between 2012 and 2014, three cohorts participated in the curriculum; two of these cohorts included three advanced preventive medicine residents each and the fourth included four residents. Project faculty conducted 14 lectures and journal clubs, and two grand rounds. Six of the ten participating residents (60%) completed integrative medicine clinical rotations. Residents' attitudes toward integrative medicine were evaluated through self-assessment using the Complementary, Alternative, and Integrative Medicine Attitudes Questionnaire; data were analyzed in 2015. This article describes the results of this prospective observational study based on single-institution experience over the course of the 2-year project period.
BACKGROUND The number of medical students accepted into medical programs is increasing, which has made the traditional long/short case style of examination difficult to conduct. At Dammam University, the program is shifting to the use of the Objective Structural Clinical Examination (OSCE), which may solve some of these difficulties, including issues with reliability, validity index and exam duration.   RESULTS A pilot study was conducted over one semester. A total of 207 examinees in three groups took the OSCE and written exams. The OSCE consisted of 18 clinical stations and required 3-4.3 h/day. The written exam contained 80 multiple-choice questions. The Cronbach's alpha for each group was 0.7, 0.8, and 0.9. Correlations for all stations ranged from 0.7 to 0.8, which indicated good stability and internal consistency with minor differences in the progression of the indexes. The reliability of the written exam was 0.79, and the validity of the OSCE was 0.63, as assessed using Pearson's correlation.   CONCLUSION No single reliability index can be considered a perfect assessment tool to solve this issue. Thus, at least two to three indexes should be used to ensure the reliability of the OSCE.
BACKGROUND Objective Structured Clinical Examinations (OSCEs) often involve a considerable amount of resources in terms of materials and organization since the scores are often recorded on paper. Computer-assisted administration is an alternative with which the need for material resources can be reduced. In particular, the use of tablets seems sensible because these are easy to transport and flexible to use.   AIM User acceptance concerning the use of tablets during OSCEs has not yet been extensively investigated. The aim of this study was to evaluate tablet-based OSCEs from the perspective of the user (examiner) and the student examinee.   METHOD For two OSCEs in Internal Medicine at the University of Heidelberg, user acceptance was analyzed regarding tablet-based administration (satisfaction with functionality) and the subjective amount of effort as perceived by the examiners. Standardized questionnaires and semi-standardized interviews were conducted (complete survey of all participating examiners). In addition, for one OSCE, the subjective evaluation of this mode of assessment was gathered from a random sample of participating students in semi-standardized interviews.   RESULTS Overall, the examiners were very satisfied with using tablets during the assessment. The subjective amount of effort to use the tablet was found on average to be 'hardly difficult'. The examiners identified the advantages of this mode of administration as being in particular the ease of use and low rate of error. During the interviews of the examinees, acceptance for the use of tablets during the assessment was also detected.   DISCUSSION Overall, it was found that the use of tablets during OSCEs was well accepted by both examiners and examinees. We expect that this mode of assessment also offers advantages regarding assessment documentation, use of resources, and rate of error in comparison with paper-based assessments; all of these aspects should be followed up on in further studies.
OBJECTIVE The decision having the most serious consequences for a student taking an assessment is the one to pass or fail that student. For this reason, the reliability of the pass/fail decision must be determined for high quality assessments, just as the measurement reliability of the point values. Assessments in a particular subject (graded course credit) are often composed of multiple components that must be passed independently of each other. When 'conjunctively' combining separate pass/fail decisions, as with other complex decision rules for passing, adequate methods of analysis are necessary for estimating the accuracy and consistency of these classifications. To date, very few papers have addressed this issue; a generally applicable procedure was published by Douglas and Mislevy in 2010. Using the example of an assessment comprised of several parts that must be passed separately, this study analyzes the reliability underlying the decision to pass or fail students and discusses the impact of an improved method for identifying those who do not fulfill the minimum requirements.   METHOD The accuracy and consistency of the decision to pass or fail an examinee in the subject cluster Internal Medicine/General Medicine/Clinical Chemistry at the University of Heidelberg's Faculty of Medicine was investigated. This cluster requires students to separately pass three components (two written exams and an OSCE), whereby students may reattempt to pass each component twice. Our analysis was carried out using the method described by Douglas and Mislevy.   RESULTS Frequently, when complex logical connections exist between the individual pass/fail decisions in the case of low failure rates, only a very low reliability for the overall decision to grant graded course credit can be achieved, even if high reliabilities exist for the various components. For the example analyzed here, the classification accuracy and consistency when conjunctively combining the three individual parts is relatively low with 觀=0.49 or 觀=0.47, despite the good reliability of over 0.75 for each of the three components. The option to repeat each component twice leads to a situation in which only about half of the candidates who do not satisfy the minimum requirements would fail the overall assessment, while the other half is able to continue their studies despite having deficient knowledge and skills.   CONCLUSION The method put forth by Douglas and Mislevy allows the analysis of the decision accuracy and consistency for complex combinations of scores from different components. Even in the case of highly reliable components, it is not necessarily so that a reliable pass/fail decision has been reached - for instance in the case of low failure rates. Assessments must be administered with the explicit goal of identifying examinees that do not fulfill the minimum requirements.
PURPOSE Although some evidence suggests that resident duty hours reforms can lead to shift-worker mentality and loss of patient ownership, other evidence links long hours and fatigue to poor work performance and loss of empathy, suggesting the restrictions could positively affect professionalism. The authors explored perceived impacts of a 16-hour duty restriction, achieved using a night float (NF) system, on the workplace and professionalism.   METHOD In 2013, the authors conducted semistructured interviews with 18 residents, 9 staff physicians, and 3 residency program directors in the McGill University core internal medicine residency program regarding their perceptions of the program's 12-hour shift-based NF system. Interviews were transcribed and coded for common themes. The authors used a descriptive qualitative methodology.   RESULTS Participants viewed implementation of the NF system as leading to decreased physical and mental exhaustion, more consistent interaction with patients, and more stable team structure within shifts compared with the previous 24-hour call system. These workplace changes were felt to improve teamwork and patient ownership within shifts, quality of work performed, and empathy. Across shifts, however, more frequent sign-overs, stricter application of shift time boundaries, and loose integration between daytime and NF teams were perceived as leading to emergence of shift-worker mentality around sign-over. Perceptions of optimal patient ownership changed from the traditional single-physician-24/7 model to team-based shared ownership.   CONCLUSIONS Duty hours restrictions, as exemplified by an NF system, have both positive and negative impacts on professionalism. Interventions and training toward effective team-based care are needed to curb emergence of shift-worker mentality.
INTRODUCTION From 30 to 80% of hospitalized patients is inserted a peripheral venous catheter (PVC). The PVC may be associated to several infective and non infective complications.   AIMS To assess whether a long-length vs standard-length PCV reduces the incidence of CRCs; to assess the patients' preferences and costs.   METHODS Randomized clinical trial on 211 patients (339 cannulas) admitted to an emergency medical and surgical wards. Patients were included if >18 years and prescribed a PVC. After the randomization the PVC were inspected daily, until removal.   RESULTS 186 complications occurred with the standard CVPs vs 16 with the midline, per 1000 catheter days; 47 phlebitis were observed in patients with standard PVCs vs none in those with midline; also infiltrations (66 vs 2 per 1000 catheter days), asymptomatic thromboses (34 vs 7 per 1000 catheter days), occlusions and accidental removals were greatly reduced. The higher cost of midline is counterbalanced by the complications prevented. In addition midline patients referred less limitations (96% vs 50.7%) and an higher satisfaction (91.9% vs 53.7%).   CONCLUSIONS The midline catheters radically reduce PVC associated complications, are preferred by patients and the higher costs should be weighted against the complications avoided.
BACKGROUND Procedural skills training forms an essential, yet difficult to assess, component of an Internal Medicine Residency Program. We report the development of process of documentation and assessment of procedural skills training.   METHOD An explanatory sequential mixed methods design was adopted where both quantitative and qualitative information was collected sequentially. A survey was conducted within the Department of Internal Medicine at The Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi, Pakistan to determine the optimum number of procedures needed to be performed by residents at each year of residency. Respondents included both faculty and the residents in the Department. Thereafter, all responses were compiled and later scrutinized by a focus group comprising of a mix of faculty from various subspecialties and resident representatives.   RESULTS A total of 64 responses were obtained. A significant difference was found in eight procedural skills' status between residents and faculty, though none of these were significant after accounting for multiple consecutive testing. However, the results were reviewed and a consensus for the procedures needed was developed through a focus group. A finalized procedural list was generated to determine: (a) the minimum number of times each procedure needed to be performed by the resident before deemed competent; (b) the level of competency for each procedure for respective year of residency.   CONCLUSION We conclude that the opinion of both the residents and the faculty as key stakeholders is vital to determine the number of procedures to be performed during an Internal Medicine Residency. Documentation of procedural competency development during the training would make the system more objective and hence reproducible. A log book was designed consisting of minimum number of procedures to be performed before attaining competency.
INTRODUCTION Scientific studies on injury characteristics are rather common in professional football but not in amateur football despite the thousands of amateur football tournaments taking place worldwide each year. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the preparation and injury patterns of players of two different football skill levels who participated in an international amateur football tournament.   METHODS In a prospective cohort study, an international amateur football tournament of medical doctors in 2011 was analysed with regard to training and warm-up preparation, the level of football played before the tournament and injury data during the tournament by means of standardised injury definitions and data samples for football.   RESULTS Amateur players of registered football clubs had higher training exposure before the tournament (p < 0.001) than recreational players and had more frequently performed warm-up programmes (p < 0.001). Recreational football players showed a significantly higher overall injury incidence (p < 0.002), particularly of overuse injuries (p < 0.001), during the tournament than amateur players. In almost 75% of players in both groups, the body region most affected by injuries and complaints was the lower extremities. Orthopaedic and trauma surgeons had the lowest overall injury incidence and anaesthetists the highest (p = 0.049) during the tournament.   CONCLUSION For the first time, this study presents detailed information on the injury incidence and injury patterns of an amateur football tournament. Less-trained recreational players sustained significantly more injuries than better-trained amateur players, probably due to the lack of sufficient preparation before the tournament. Preventive strategies against overuse and traumatic injuries of recreational football players should start with regular training and warm-up programmes in preparation for a tournament.
BACKGROUND The aim of this study was to review the typical factors related to physician's liability in obstetrics and gynecology departments, as compared to those in internal medicine and surgery, regarding a breach of the duty to explain.   METHODS This study involved analyzing 366 medical litigation case reports from 1990 through 2008 where the duty to explain was disputed. We examined relationships between patients, physicians, variables related to physician's explanations, and physician's breach of the duty to explain by comparing mean values and percentages in obstetrics and gynecology, internal medicine, and surgical departments with the t-test and (2) test.   RESULTS When we compared the reasons for decisions in cases where the patient won, we found that the percentage of cases in which the patient's claim was recognized was the highest for both physician negligence, including errors of judgment and procedural mistakes, and breach of the duty to explain, in obstetrics and gynecology departments; breach of the duty to explain alone in internal medicine departments; and mistakes in medical procedures alone in surgical departments (p = 0.008). When comparing patients, the rate of death was significantly higher than that of other outcomes in precedents where a breach of the duty to explain was acknowledged (p = 0.046). The proportion of cases involving obstetrics and gynecology departments, in which care was claimed to be substandard at the time of treatment, and that were not argued as breach of a duty to explain, was significantly higher than those of other evaluated departments (p <0.001). However, internal medicine and surgical departments were very similar in this context. In obstetrics and gynecology departments, the proportion of cases in which it had been conceded that the duty to explain had been breached when seeking patient approval (or not) was significantly higher than in other departments (p = 0.002).   CONCLUSION It is important for physicians working in obstetrics and gynecology departments to carefully explain the risk of death associated with any planned procedure, and to obtain genuinely informed patient consent.
Healthcare organisations, medical knowledge and clinical practice are among the contexts that have most strongly felt the impact of the over 75 population. This is a population of multimorbidity and polypharmacy patients. They are often seen as a conglomeration of juxtaposed guidelines resulting in the intake of more than 10 drugs a day, with absolutely no certainty of their efficacy. The scientific community is increasingly calling into question the current disease-focused approach. Narrative medicine can provide the tools for a treatment plan which is instead more patient-centred. Narrative medicine can promote the development of a systemic, integrated and multi-disciplinary approach to elderly patients. The stories of patients and caregivers, their representations, perceptions, experiences and preferences can reduce the risk of inappropriate tests and treatments. They can promote deprescribing procedures based on a careful analysis of a specific patient's needs. Narration time is treatment time which does not necessarily create a burden on organisations and caregivers. Quite the contrary since by facilitating adherence and team work, it can significantly reduce time and costs. Given their training and the importance of their relationship with elderly patients, internists, together with geriatricians, can play a key role in promoting and coordinating a narrative medicine approach.
Monogenic autoinflammatory disorders (AIDs) are rare diseases driven by cytokine-mediated extraordinary sterile inflammation that results from the activation of innate immune pathways. The clinical hallmark of these diseases is the recurrence of stereotyped episodes of systemic- and organ-specific inflammation; the most common systems involved being the skin, musculoskeletal system, gastrointestinal tract, and central nervous system. The autoinflammatory disorders may have a profound impact on the quality of life of the affected patients, and a delayed diagnosis may lead to severe complications, the most dreadful of which is AA-Amyloidosis. This review gives an overview on the four main AIDs, namely familial Mediterranean fever, tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated periodic syndrome, cryopyrinopathies, and mevalonate kinase deficiency, focusing on their clinical phenotype in adults and differential diagnosis, suggesting a diagnostic algorithm, and reviewing the available treatments.
POSITIVE RECOMMENDATIONS A. After osteoporotic fractures in the elderly, as a rule specific antiosteoporotic therapy should be initiated. a. Osteoporosis as a disease of the elderly should be diagnosed and treated (recommendation of the German Society for Geriatrics). B. All patients with diabetes mellitus should complete a specific diabetes training program when antidiabetic drug medication is initiated. C. In Germany, all pregnant women should be advised to undertake iodine supplementation. D. Endocrine causes of hypertension should be ruled out in younger patients and in patients on multiple antihypertensive drugs. E. All unclear cases of hypercalcemia should be clarified.   NEGATIVE RECOMMENDATIONS A. Testosterone substitution therapy should not be initiated on the basis of only one measurement of a reduced testosterone level without clinical signs and clarification of the underlying cause. B. Imaging procedures should only be used after the existence of hormonal disease has been confirmed. C. Sonographic screening for thyroid disease is not advised in the elderly. D. Long-term therapy with levothyroxine for nodular goiter should be avoided. E. In relevant stress situations hydrocortisone replacement therapy should not be continued without dose adjustment in patients with adrenal or pituitary insufficiency.
BACKGROUND Safe hospital discharges have become a major focus in the national discussion on transitions of care and care coordination. Education on the hospital discharge process is evolving as the needs of trainees are better understood.   PURPOSE This study is a cross-sectional survey of residents in a Midwestern residency program about their confidence in safely discharging patients from the hospital, including how they have or have not learned to do so.   METHODS An anonymous paper questionnaire was distributed to a convenience sample of interns and residents at a weekly meeting of the residency program.   RESULTS Most residents reported a general confidence in their abilities to safely discharge patients from the hospital; however, further probing revealed that their confidence breaks down when required to competently perform specific tasks of the discharge process such as activity restrictions or facilitation of home care. More than 50% of house staff surveyed responded that their education in many specific aspects of the discharge process are lacking.   CONCLUSION Interdisciplinary care education, and the discharge summary in particular, warrant further scrutiny as a care transition tool and means of teaching safe hospital discharge to trainees. We present a questionnaire that may serve useful as an anonymous tool to gauge residents' educational needs.
OBJECTIVES To describe the characteristics of top-rated Internal Medicine attendings and whether they changed after implementation of the 2004 work-hour restrictions.   METHODS Mixed methods study of resident ratings of medicine attendings (Period 1: 1994-1996, n = 250 and Period 2: 2007-2009, n = 152). Residents evaluated 17 attending characteristics. The top 25% of 'overall' ratings were classified as 'highly rated.' Two free-text questions included 'What was your attending's best characteristic?' and 'How could your attending best improve?' and were coded in duplicate, using grounded qualitative methods.   RESULTS There were no differences in the characteristics of highly rated attendings in the two time periods. Characteristics associated with being a top-rated attending included enthusiasm (odds ratio [OR]: 5.69, 2.78-11.67), balanced teaching style (OR: 3.63, 1.64-8.02), promoting independent thinking (OR: 2.90, 0.96-8.74), fund of knowledge (OR: 2.73, 1.13-6.58), and time management (OR: 1.78, 1.14-2.80). Among the 1,410 utterances, valued attending attributes included helpfulness, promoting independent thinking, and having strong medical knowledge.   CONCLUSIONS The characteristics valued by residents in attendings did not change over time despite a major structural change in work hours and patterns of teaching. These valued characteristics continue to be a strong general fund of knowledge, enthusiasm for teaching, and balance between didactic and bedside approaches.
BACKGROUND Prior studies suggest that high workload among attending physicians may be associated with reduced teaching effectiveness and poor patient outcomes, but these relationships have not been investigated using objective measures of workload and safety.   OBJECTIVE To examine associations between attending workload, teaching effectiveness, and patient safety, hypothesizing that higher workload would be associated with lower teaching effectiveness and negative patient outcomes.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS We conducted a retrospective study of 69,386 teaching evaluation items submitted by 543 internal medicine residents for 107 attending physicians who supervised inpatient teaching services from July 2, 2005 to July 1, 2011.   MEASUREMENTS Attending workload measures included hospital service census, patient length of stay, daily admissions, daily discharges, and concurrent outpatient duties. Teaching effectiveness was measured using residents' evaluations of attendings. Patient outcomes considered were applicable patient safety indicators (PSIs), intensive care unit transfers, cardiopulmonary resuscitation/rapid response team calls, and patient deaths. Mixed linear models and generalized linear regression models were used for statistical analysis.   RESULTS Workload measures of midnight census and daily discharges were associated with lower teaching evaluation scores (both 棺 = -0.026, P < 0.0001). The number of daily admissions was associated with higher teaching scores (棺 = 0.021, P = 0.001) and increased PSIs (odds ratio = 1.81, P = 0.0001).   CONCLUSION Several measures of attending physician workload were associated with slightly lower teaching effectiveness, and patient safety may be compromised when teams are managing new admissions. Ongoing efforts by residency programs to optimize the learning environment should include strategies to manage the workload of supervising attendings.
OBJECTIVES To determine whether sharing laboratory charge and personal utilization information with physicians can reduce laboratory test orders and expenditures, thereby decreasing the overutilization of laboratory testing.   METHODS This was a prospective study. By querying our electronic medical records, we calculated the median laboratory charges per patient/per day (PP/PD) and median laboratory tests ordered PP/PD for the resident general internal medicine and hospitalist services. For 10 weeks, we shared this team-based information with physicians with weekly updates. We calculated total laboratory charges for the 10 most common discharge diagnoses to capture laboratory charges for entire episodes of care.   RESULTS During the intervention, the mean number of laboratory tests ordered PP/PD by resident service decreased from 5.56 to 5.17 (-0.389, P <0.001); the mean charge PP/PD decreased from $488 to $461 (-$27, P < 0.001). The hospitalist service decreased the number of laboratory tests ordered PP/PD from 3.54 to 3.36 (-0.18, P = 0.77) and the mean charge PP/PD decreased from $331 to $301 (-$30, P = 0.96). The statistically significant decline in laboratory charges persisted after controlling for the 10 most common discharge diagnoses. Compared with the 3-month period before the study began, physicians in the 10-week intervention period ordered 1464 fewer laboratory tests, resulting in a $188,000 reduction in charges and a 3% to 4% reduction in utilization.   CONCLUSIONS Informing physicians of the charges for laboratory tests and their personal utilization patterns can reduce the number of laboratory tests ordered and laboratory expenditures, especially for physicians in training.
BACKGROUND For residents in the out-patient clinic, continuity in patient care is an integral and vital aspect of internal medicine training, but is frequently compromised by resident in-patient schedules, the structure of the out-patient clinic and the need to comply with the increasing regulation of duty hours.   METHOD In this study, we examined whether the creation and implementation of a new team approach, the Firms Model, would improve the continuity of patient care in the internal medicine resident out-patient clinic.   RESULTS Before the implementation of the Firms Model, an examination of a consecutive clinic sample indicated that patients were seen by their assigned resident providers 41.9혻per혻cent of the time (n혻=혻1319 clinic visits). After implementation of the Firms Model, an examination of a consecutive clinic sample indicated that patients were seen by their assigned Firm resident providers 88.9혻per혻cent of the time (n혻=혻1341 clinic visits).   CONCLUSION Implementation of the Firms Model resulted in a statistically significant increase in the percentage of patients seen by assigned resident providers in an internal medicine out-patient clinic, culminating in a substantial improvement in continuity of care within our resident out-patient clinic. We discuss the implications of these findings. Continuity in patient care is an integral and vital aspect of혻internal medicine training, but is혻frequently compromised.
BACKGROUND Internship, the transition period from medical student to junior doctor, is highly stressful for interns in the West; however, little is known about the experience of interns in coping with stress in Taiwan. This study aimed to develop a model for coping with stress among Taiwanese interns and to examine the relationship between stress and learning outcomes.   METHODS For this qualitative study, we used grounded theory methodology with theoretical sampling. We collected data through in-depth interviews and participant observations. We employed the constant comparative method to analyse the data until data saturation was achieved.   RESULTS The study population was 124 medical interns in a teaching hospital in northern Taiwan; 21 interns (12 males) participated. Data analysis revealed that the interns encountered stressors (such as sense of responsibility, coping with uncertainty, and interpersonal relationships) resulting from their role transition from observer to practitioner. The participants used self-directed learning and avoidance as strategies to deal with their stress.   CONCLUSIONS A self-directed learning strategy can be beneficial for an intern's motivation to learn as well as for patient welfare. However, avoiding stressors can result in less motivation to learn and hinder the quality of care. Understanding how interns experience and cope with stress and its related outcomes can help medical educators and policy makers improve the quality of medical education by encouraging interns' self-directed learning strategy and discouraging the avoidance of stressors.
Every day, patients with dementia, their families, and their physicians face the enormous challenges of this pervasive life-changing condition. Seeking help, often grasping at straws, victims, and their care providers are confronted with misinformation and myths when they search the internet or other sources. When Persons with Dementia (PWD) and their caregivers believe and/or act on false information, proper treatment may be delayed, and ultimately damage can be done. In this paper, we review commonly misunderstood issues encountered in caring for PWD. Our goal is to equip Primary Care Practitioners (PCPs) with accurate information to share with patients and families, to improve the outcomes of PWD to the greatest extent possible. While there are innumerable myths about dementia and its causes and treatments, we are going to focus on the most common false claims or misunderstandings which we hear in our Internal Medicine practice at Marshall Health. We offer suggestions for busy practitioners approaching some of the more common issues with patients and families in a clinic setting.
The Next Accreditation System requires internal medicine training programs to provide the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) with semiannual information about each resident's progress in 22 subcompetency domains. Evaluation of resident 'trustworthiness' in performing entrustable professional activities (EPAs) may offer a more tangible assessment construct than evaluations based on expectations of usual progression toward competence. However, translating results from EPA-based evaluations into ACGME milestone progress reports has proven to be challenging because the constructs that underlay these two systems differ.The authors describe a process to bridge the gap between rotation-specific EPA-based evaluations and ACGME milestone reporting. Developed at the University of Washington in 2012 and 2013, this method involves mapping EPA-based evaluation responses to 'milestone elements,' the narrative descriptions within the columns of each of the 22 internal medicine subcompetencies. As faculty members complete EPA-based evaluations, the mapped milestone elements are automatically marked as 'confirmed.' Programs can maintain a database that tallies the number of times each milestone element is confirmed for a resident; these data can be used to produce graphical displays of resident progress along the internal medicine milestones.Using this count of milestone elements allows programs to bridge the gap between faculty assessments of residents based on rotation-specific observed activities and semiannual ACGME reports based on the internal medicine milestones. Although potentially useful for all programs, this method is especially beneficial to large programs where clinical competency committee members may not have the opportunity for direct observation of all residents.
PURPOSE To report findings from a national effort initiated by three primary care certifying boards to catalyze change in primary care training.   METHOD In this mixed-method pilot study (2012-2014), 36 faculty in 12 primary care residencies (family medicine, internal medicine, pediatrics) from four institutions participated in a professional development program designed to prepare faculty to accelerate change in primary care residency training by uniting them in a common mission to create effective ambulatory clinical learning environments. Surveys administered at baseline and 12 months after initial training measured changes in faculty members' confidence and skills, continuity clinics, and residency training programs. Feasibility evaluation involved assessing participation. The authors compared quantitative data using Wilcoxon signed-rank and Bhapkar tests. Observational field notes underwent narrative analysis.   RESULTS Most participants attended two in-person training sessions (92% and 72%, respectively). Between baseline and 12 months, faculty members' confidence in leadership improved significantly for 15/19 (79%) variables assessed; their self-assessed skills improved significantly for 21/22 (95%) competencies. Two medical home domains ('Continuity of Care,' 'Support/Care Coordination') improved significantly (P < .05) between the two time periods. Analyses of qualitative data revealed that interdisciplinary learning communities formed during the program and served to catalyze transformational change.   CONCLUSIONS Results suggest that improvements in faculty perceptions of confidence and skills occurred and that the creation of interdisciplinary learning communities catalyzed transformation. Lengthening the intervention period, engaging other professions involved in training the primary care workforce, and a more discriminating evaluation design are needed to scale this model nationally.
To assess the basic knowledge of medical trainees, in the absence of a structured geriatrics curriculum, around a variety of geriatric medicine components that are considered essential for the care of the rapidly increasing elderly population. Eighty-three trainees at different levels of training in internal medicine were asked about a variety of common geriatric conditions. Those included: delirium, falls, geriatric syndromes, pain, cognitive impairment, and medications. The trainees' knowledge about common geriatric condition was overall poor. The most pronounced deficits included: the lack of familiarity in diagnosing geriatric syndromes (63혻%) or managing them (67혻%), the underestimation of the prevalence of delirium (49혻%), and the tendency to undertreat pain (64혻%). Poor familiarity with polypharmacy and its impact, as well as inappropriate prescription practices in the elderly were also observed. In the absence of a structured geriatric medicine curriculum, internal medicine trainees' knowledge about important geriatric conditions is poor, even if their internal medicine knowledge is overall adequate. This would translate into suboptimal care for this vulnerable and rapidly expanding segment of the population.
AIM Cost awareness has been proposed as a strategy for curbing the continued rise of healthcare costs. However, most physicians are unaware of the cost of diagnostic tests, and interventions have had mixed results. We sought to assess resident physician cost awareness following sustained visual display of costs into electronic health record (EHR) order entry screens.   STUDY DESIGN We completed a preintervention and postintervention web-based survey. Participants were physicians in internal medicine, paediatrics, combined medicine and paediatrics, obstetrics and gynaecology, emergency medicine, and orthopaedic surgery at one tertiary co are academic medical centre. Costs were displayed in the EHR for 1032 unique laboratory orders. We measured attitudes towards costs and estimates of Medicare reimbursement rates for 11 common laboratory and imaging tests.   RESULTS We received 209 survey responses during the preintervention period (response rate 71.1%) and 194 responses during the postintervention period (response rate 66.0%). The proportion of residents that agreed/strongly agreed that they knew the costs of tests they ordered increased after the cost display (8.6% vs 38.2%; p<0.001). Cost estimation accuracy among residents increased after the cost display from 24.0% to 52.4% for laboratory orders (p<0.001) and from 37.7% to 49.6% for imaging orders (p<0.001).   CONCLUSIONS Resident cost awareness and ability to accurately estimate laboratory order costs improved significantly after implementation of a comprehensive EHR cost display for all laboratory orders. The improvement in cost estimation accuracy for imaging orders, which did not have costs displayed, suggested a possible spillover effect generated by providing a cost context for residents.
OBJECTIVE The objectives of this study were to describe residents' experiences with end-of-life (EOL) education during a rotation in the intensive care unit (ICU), and to understand the possible influence of the 3 Wishes Project.   DESIGN We enrolled dying patients, their families and 1-3 of their clinicians in the 3 Wishes Project, eliciting and honouring a set of 3 wishes to bring peace to the final days of a critically ill patient's life, and ease the grieving process for families. We conducted semistructured interviews with 33 residents who had cared for 50 dying patients to understand their experiences with the project. Interviews were recorded, transcribed verbatim, then analysed using a qualitative descriptive approach.   SETTING 21-bed medical surgical ICU in a tertiary care, university-affiliated hospital.   RESULTS 33 residents participated from internal medicine (24, 72.7%), anaesthesia (8, 24.2%) and laboratory medicine (1, 3.0%) programmes in postgraduate years 1-3. 3 categories and associated themes emerged. (1) EOL care is a challenging component of training in that (a) death in the ICU can invoke helplessness, (b) EOL education is inadequate, (c) personal connections with dying patients is difficult in the ICU and (d) EOL skills are valued by residents. (2) The project reframes the dying process for residents by (a) humanising this aspect of practice, (b) identifying that family engagement is central to the dying process, (c) increasing emotional responsiveness and (d) showing that care shifts, not stops. (3) The project offers experiential education by (a) intentional role modelling, (b) facilitating EOL dialogue, (c) empowering residents to care in a tangible way and (d) encouraging reflection.   CONCLUSIONS For residents, the 3 Wishes Project integrated many forms of active learning for residents. Practice-based rather than classroom-based programmes may engage trainees to develop EOL skills transferable to other settings.
BACKGROUND Nearly one in three Americans are financially burdened by their medical expenses. To mitigate financial distress, experts recommend routine physician-patient cost conversations. However, the content and incidence of these conversations are unclear, and rigorous definitions are lacking. We sought to develop a novel set of cost conversation definitions, and determine the impact of definitional variation on cost conversation incidence in three clinical settings.   METHODS Retrospective, mixed-methods analysis of transcribed dialogue from 1,755 outpatient encounters for routine clinical management of breast cancer, rheumatoid arthritis, and depression, occurring between 2010-2014. We developed cost conversation definitions using summative content analysis. Transcripts were evaluated independently by at least two members of our multi-disciplinary team to determine cost conversation incidence using each definition. Incidence estimates were compared using Pearson's Chi-Square Tests.   RESULTS Three cost conversation definitions emerged from our analysis: (a) Out-of-Pocket (OoP) Cost--discussion of the patient's OoP costs for a healthcare service; (b) Cost/Coverage--discussion of the patient's OoP costs or insurance coverage; (c) Cost of Illness- discussion of financial costs or insurance coverage related to health or healthcare. These definitions were hierarchical; OoP Cost was a subset of Cost/Coverage, which was a subset of Cost of Illness. In each clinical setting, we observed significant variation in the incidence of cost conversations when using different definitions; breast oncology: 16, 22, 24% of clinic visits contained cost conversation (OOP Cost, Cost/Coverage, Cost of Illness, respectively; P < 0.001); depression: 30, 38, 43%, (P < 0.001); and rheumatoid arthritis, 26, 33, 35%, (P < 0.001).   CONCLUSIONS The estimated incidence of physician-patient cost conversation varied significantly depending on the definition used. Our findings and proposed definitions may assist in retrospective interpretation and prospective design of investigations on this topic.
INTRODUCTION Under the Next Accreditation System, programs need to find ways to collect and assess meaningful reportable information on its residents to assist the program director regarding resident milestone progression. This paper discusses the process that one large Internal Medicine Residency Program used to provide both quantitative and qualitative data to its clinical competency committee (CCC) through the creation of a resident dashboard.   METHODS Program leadership at a large university-based program developed four new end of rotation evaluations based on the American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) and Accreditation Council of Graduated Medical Education's (ACGME) 22 reportable milestones. A resident dashboard was then created to pull together both milestone- and non-milestone-based quantitative data and qualitative data compiled from faculty, nurses, peers, staff, and patients.   RESULTS Dashboards were distributed to the members of the CCC in preparation for the semiannual CCC meeting. CCC members adjudicated quantitative and qualitative data to present their cohort of residents at the CCC meeting. Based on the committee's response, evaluation scores remained the same or were adjusted. Final milestone scores were then entered into the accreditation data system (ADS) on the ACGME website.   CONCLUSIONS The process of resident assessment is complex and should comprise both quantitative and qualitative data. The dashboard is a valuable tool for program leadership to use both when evaluating house staff on a semiannual basis at the CCC and to the resident in person.
OBJECTIVE We report on a quality improvement program to co-manage patients with co-morbid medical and psychiatric disorders in the general hospital. A philanthropic donation allowed a high volume, high-acuity urban hospital to hire a co-managing inpatient psychiatrist. The expectation was that facilitating psychiatric evaluation/treatment of medical patients would result in fewer patients staying beyond the expected length of stay (LOS).   METHOD The psychiatrist became a member of a general medical team working with a group of internists and actively co-managing medical patients. After one year, we compared time-to-consultation request and LOS for patients seen through the traditional Consultation-Liaison model and patients seen through the co-managed care model. A second co-managing psychiatrist was hired. A new QI project investigated reduction in lost days.   RESULTS There was a decrease in LOS for patients seen in the co-managed care model when compared with those seen via the traditional Consultation-Liaison model. Co-managed patients were seen earlier in the hospitalization. Excluding very-long-stay outliers, there was a reduction in LOS of 1.19 days (p < 0.003). There was an estimated annualized saving to the hospital of 2889 patient days.   CONCLUSIONS A program of co-managed care reduced both LOS and lost days to the hospital. This resulted in an increase in hospital support to hire 2.5 full-time equivalent psychiatrists and 1.0 full-time equivalent social worker for the Consultation-Liaison service. Such programs may permit the return of modernized psychiatric liaison programs to medical and surgical services.
PURPOSE This study aimed to assess the impact of ultrasound simulation (SonoSim) on educational outcomes of an introductory point-of-care ultrasound course compared to hands-on training with live models alone.   METHODS Fifty-three internal medicine residents without ultrasound experience were randomly assigned to control or experimental groups. They participated in an introductory point-of-care ultrasound course covering eight topics in eight sessions from June 23, 2014 until July 18, 2014. Both participated in lecture and hands-on training, but experimental group received an hour of computerized simulator training instead of a second hour of hands-on training. We assessed clinical knowledge and image acquisition with written multiple-choice and practical exams, respectively. Of the 53 enrolled, 40 participants (75.5%) completed the course and all testing.   RESULTS For the 30-item written exam, mean score of the experimental group was 23.1짹3.4 (n=21) vs. 21.8짹4.8 (n=19), (P>0 .05). For the practical exam, mean score for both groups was 8.7 out of 16 (P>0 .05).   CONCLUSION The substitution of eight hours of ultrasound simulation training for live model scanning in a 24 hour training course did not enhance performance on written and image acquisition tests in an introductory ultrasound course for residents. This result suggests that ultrasound simulation technology used as a substitute for live model training on an hour-for-hour basis, did not improve learning outcomes. Further investigation into simulation as a total replacement for live model training will provide a clearer picture of the efficacy of ultrasound simulators in medical education.
BACKGROUND Osteoporotic vertebral fractures (VFs) often go unrecognised in both healthy individuals and in pathological conditions. Few data exist on VFs in patients hospitalised in Internal Medicine Units (IMUs), who often suffer from multiple concomitant chronic disorders.   AIM OF THE STUDY This multicentre cross-sectional study was aimed at assessing the prevalence of VFs in an unselected population of patients referring to IMUs. Correlations between VFs and the main coexisting diseases were also investigated.   METHODS Information on demographic, clinical and laboratory findings, and on the presence of known risk factors for osteoporosis was recorded. The Genant's semi-quantitative method was used to evaluate, in a central reading centre, the presence and severity of VFs in the thoracic and lumbar spine.   RESULTS A cohort of 995 patients was evaluated. At least one VF of any grade was found in 47.5% of patients, with similar prevalence between females (48.1%) and males (46.7%). Older age, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and previous diagnosis of osteoporosis showed a significant association with VFs in multivariable analysis. However, 79.7% of the VFs were observed in patients without previous diagnosis of osteoporosis. Moreover, a VF of grade 2 or greater was found in 20.8% of patients.   CONCLUSIONS Fragility VFs is a very frequent finding in patients hospitalised in IMUs. Consequently, more attention should be devoted in this clinical setting to this comorbidity, which is known to be an additional factor for mortality and, when localised in the thoracic part of the spine, may negatively influence a concomitant respiratory insufficiency.
OBJECTIVE To examine inappropriate antibiotic prescribing for acute respiratory tract infections (RTIs) in ambulatory care to help target antimicrobial stewardship interventions. Design and Setting Retrospective analysis of RTI visits within general internal medicine (GIM) and family medicine (FM) ambulatory practices at an inner-city academic medical center from 2008 to 2010.   METHODS Patient, physician, and practice characteristics were analyzed using multivariable logistic regression to determine factors predictive of inappropriate prescribing; physicians in the highest and lowest antibiotic-prescribing quartiles were compared using 2 analysis.   RESULTS Visits with FM providers, female gender, and self-reported race/ethnicity as white or Hispanic were significantly associated with inappropriate antibiotic prescribing. Physicians in the lowest quartile prescribed antibiotics for 5%-28% (mean, 21%) of RTI visits; physicians in the highest quartile prescribed antibiotics for 54%-85% (mean, 65%) of RTI visits. High prescribers had fewer African-American patients and more patients who were younger and privately insured. High prescribers had more patients with chronic lung disease. A GIM practice pod with a low prescriber was 3.0 times more likely to have a second low prescriber than other practice pods, whereas pods with a high prescriber were 1.3 times more likely to have a second high prescriber.   CONCLUSIONS Medical specialty was the only physician factor predictive of inappropriate prescribing when patient gender, race, and comorbidities were taken into account. Possible disparities in care need further study. Stewardship education in medical school, enlisting low prescribers as physician leaders, and targeting interventions to the highest prescribers might be more effective approaches to antimicrobial stewardship.
Orally administered medications may interact with various fruits, vegetables, herbal medicines, functional foods or dietary supplements. Drug-food interactions, which are mostly unknown from prescribers, including internists, may be responsible for changes in drug plasma concentrations, which may decrease efficacy or led to sometimes life-threatening toxicity. Aging, concomitant medications, transplant recipients, patients with cancer, malnutrition, HIV infection and those receiving enteral or parenteral feeding are at increased risk of drug-food interactions. This review focused on the most clinically relevant drug-food interactions, including those with grapefruit juice, Saint-John's Wort, enteral or parenteral nutrition, their respective consequences in the clinical setting in order to provide thoughtful information for internists in their routine clinical practice. Specific clinical settings are also detailed, such as the Ramadan or multiple medications especially in elderly patients. Drug-food interactions are also presented with respect to the main therapeutic families, including the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, analgesics, cardiovascular medications, warfarin as well as new oral anticoagulants, anticancer drugs and immunosuppressant medications. Considerable effort has been achieved to a better understanding of food-drug interactions and increase clinicians' ability to anticipate their occurrence and consequences in clinical practice. Describing the frequency of relevant food-drug interactions in internal medicine is paramount in order to optimize patient care and drug dosing on an individual basis as well as to increase patients and doctors information.
BACKGROUND Exams are essential components of medical students' knowledge and skill assessment during their clinical years of study. The paper provides a retrospective analysis of validity evidence for the internal medicine component of the written and clinical exams administered in 2012 and 2013 at King Abdulaziz University's Faculty of Medicine.   METHODS Students' scores for the clinical and written exams were obtained. Four faculty members (two senior members and two junior members) were asked to rate the exam questions, including MCQs and OSCEs, for evidence of content validity using a rating scale of 1-5 for each item. Cronbach's alpha was used to measure the internal consistency reliability. Correlations were used to examine the associations between different forms of assessment and groups of students.   RESULTS A total of 824 students completed the internal medicine course and took the exam. The numbers of rated questions were 320 and 46 for the MCQ and OSCE, respectively. Significant correlations were found between the MCQ section, the OSCE section, and the continuous assessment marks, which include 20 long-case presentations during the course; participation in daily rounds, clinical sessions and tutorials; the performance of simple procedures, such as IV cannulation and ABG extraction; and the student log book. Although the OSCE exam was reliable for the two groups that had taken the final clinical OSCE, the clinical long- and short-case exams were not reliable across the two groups that had taken the oral clinical exams. The correlation analysis showed a significant linear association between the raters with respect to evidence of content validity for both the MCQ and OSCE, r=.219 P<.001 and r=.678 P<.001, respectively, and r=.241 P<.001 and r=.368 P=.023 for the internal structure validity, respectively. Reliability measured using Cronbach's alpha was greater for assessments administered in 2013.   CONCLUSION The pattern of relationships between the MCQ and OSCE scores provides evidence of the validity of these measures for use in the evaluation of knowledge and clinical skills in internal medicine. The OSCE exam is more reliable than the short- and long-case clinical exams and requires less effort on the part of examiners and patients.
Central venous catheterization (CVC) is a complex but commonly performed procedure. How best to teach this complex skill has not been clearly delineated. We conducted a randomized trial of the effects of two types of teaching of CVC on skill acquisition and retention. We randomly assigned novice internal medicine residents to learning CVC in-part or in-whole. The part-group was taught the first part of the procedure, followed by practice, followed by being taught the second and final portion of the procedure, and followed by practice. The whole-group was taught the procedure in its entirety, followed by practice. Teaching and practice time for both groups was otherwise held constant. Performances were assessed at baseline, post-training, and at 1혻month. The primary outcome was skill retention at 1-month, rated by using a global rating scale and a 22-item checklist, and defined as the score increase between 1-month and baseline. Skill acquisition is defined as the score increase post-training and baseline. Raters were blinded to the participants' identity, group assignment, and time point. Participants in the part-task group outperformed the whole-task group in skill acquisition (2.2혻짹혻0.8 vs 1.3혻짹혻1.0; g혻=혻1.01; p혻=혻0.04) and in skill retention (1.5혻짹혻0.7 vs 0.5혻짹혻0.8; g혻=혻1.39; p혻=혻0.006) using the global rating scale. Scores rated by the checklist were not significantly different (52.0혻짹혻25.3 vs 43.5혻짹혻23.4; g혻=혻0.33; p혻=혻0.47 for skill acquisition; and 48.5혻짹혻34.9 vs 41.1혻짹혻20.4; g혻=혻0.35; p혻=혻0.44 for skill retention). For teaching ultrasound-guided CVC to novice learners, teaching in part is preferable than teaching in whole.
The starting point for Foucault's book was his wide reading of French medical literature from late 18th and early 19th centuries. He showed how the concept of disease changed profoundly during that period of great societal changes. Foucault's protagonists in the book were the French doctors Pinel, Bichat, La챘nnec and Broussais. Here, short biographies and summaries of their works will be presented in the medical and historical context and together with extracts of Foucault's text.
IMPORTANCE Seriously ill hospitalized patients have identified communication and decision making about goals of care as high priorities for quality improvement in end-of-life care. Interventions to improve care are more likely to succeed if tailored to existing barriers.   OBJECTIVE To determine, from the perspective of hospital-based clinicians, (1) barriers impeding communication and decision making about goals of care with seriously ill hospitalized patients and their families and (2) their own willingness and the acceptability for other clinicians to engage in this process.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Multicenter survey of medical teaching units of nurses, internal medicine residents, and staff physicians from participating units at 13 university-based hospitals from 5 Canadian provinces.   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Importance of 21 barriers to goals of care discussions rated on a 7-point scale (1 = extremely unimportant; 7 = extremely important).   RESULTS Between September 2012 and March 2013, questionnaires were returned by 1256 of 1617 eligible clinicians, for an overall response rate of 77.7% (512 of 646 nurses [79.3%], 484 of 634 residents [76.3%], 260 of 337 staff physicians [77.2%]). The following family member-related and patient-related factors were consistently identified by all 3 clinician groups as the most important barriers to goals of care discussions: family members' or patients' difficulty accepting a poor prognosis (mean [SD] score, 5.8 [1.2] and 5.6 [1.3], respectively), family members' or patients' difficulty understanding the limitations and complications of life-sustaining treatments (5.8 [1.2] for both groups), disagreement among family members about goals of care (5.8 [1.2]), and patients' incapacity to make goals of care decisions (5.6 [1.2]). Clinicians perceived their own skills and system factors as less important barriers. Participants viewed it as acceptable for all clinician groups to engage in goals of care discussions-including a role for advance practice nurses, nurses, and social workers to initiate goals of care discussions and be a decision coach.   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Hospital-based clinicians perceive family member-related and patient-related factors as the most important barriers to goals of care discussions. All health care professionals were viewed as playing important roles in addressing goals of care. These findings can inform the design of future interventions to improve communication and decision making about goals of care.
RATIONALE Although medical simulation is increasingly being used in healthcare education, there are few examples of how to rigorously design a simulation to evaluate and study important communication skills of intensive care unit (ICU) clinicians.   OBJECTIVES To use existing best practice recommendations to develop a medical simulation to study conflict management in ICUs, then assess the feasibility, acceptability, and realism of the simulation among ICU clinicians.   METHODS The setting was a medical ICU of a tertiary care, university hospital. Participants were 36 physicians who treat critically ill patients: intensivists, palliative medicine specialists, and trainees. Using best-practice guidelines and an iterative, multidisciplinary approach, we developed and refined a simulation involving a critically ill patient, in which the patient had a clear advance directive specifying no use of life support, and a surrogate who was unwilling to follow the patient's preferences. ICU clinicians participated in the simulation and completed surveys and semistructured interviews to assess the feasibility, acceptability, and realism of the simulation.   MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS All participants successfully completed the simulation, and all perceived conflict with the surrogate (mean conflict score, 4.2 on a 0-10 scale [SD, 2.5; range, 1-10]). Participants reported high realism of the simulation across a range of criteria, with mean ratings of greater than 8 on a 0 to 10 scale for all domains assessed. During semistructured interviews, participants confirmed a high degree of realism and offered several suggestions for improvements.   CONCLUSIONS We used existing best practice recommendations to develop a simulation model to study physician-family conflict in ICUs that is feasible, acceptable, and realistic.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES The I3 POP Collaborative's goal is to improve care of populations served by primary care residencies in North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia by dramatically improving patients' experience, quality of care, and cost-effectiveness. We examine residency baseline triple aim measures, compare with national benchmarks, and identify practice characteristics associated with data reporting.   METHODS We used a cross-sectional design, with 27 primary care residency programs caring for over 300,000 patients. Outcome measures were obtained via data pulls from electronic health records and practice management system submitted by residencies; they include quality measure sets for chronic illness and prevention, patient experience (usual provder continuity and time to third available), and utilization (emergency visits, hospitalizations, referrals, high-end radiology).   RESULTS Thirteen practices (48%) reported all required baseline measures. We found associations between data reporting ability with registry use (59% versus 0%) and having a faculty member involved in data management (69% versus 29%). Reported measures varied widely; examples include colorectal cancer screening (median: 61%, range: 28%--80%), provider continuity (median: 52%, range: 1%--68%), subspecialty referral rate (median: 24%, range: 10%--51%). Seventy percent of patient-centered medical homes (PCMH) recognized practices had usual provider continuity (UPC) > or = collaborative median versus 0% of non-PCMH recognized practices. Median data were similar to national comparisons for chronic disease measures, lower for prevention and better for utilization.   CONCLUSIONS Baseline triple aim data are highly variable among residencies, but residency care is comparable to available national standards. Registry use and faculty leadership in data management are critical success factors for assessing practice performance.
BACKGROUND Teaching using paper problem-based learning (p-PBL) sessions has left some students fatigued with the learning process. Therefore, attempts have been made to replace p-PBL with digitally enhanced, decision-making PBL in the form of virtual patients (VP). Student enthusiasm for substituting p-PBL with VP has not been quantitatively evaluated on the intended educational effects.   AIM To determine the educational effects of substituting p-PBL sessions with VP on undergraduate medical students in their internal medicine course.   METHODS We conducted a randomised controlled study on 34 third-year undergraduate medical students in the academic year 2015-2016. Student performance after an intervention substituting p-PBL sessions with VP was analysed. The educational outcomes were measured with knowledge exams and the Diagnostic Thinking Inventory.   RESULTS There was no difference in exam performance between groups (P>0.833) immediately after the intervention, or in long term. Nor was there a significant difference in improvement of diagnostic thinking between groups (P>0.935 and P>0.320).   CONCLUSIONS Our study showed no significant improvement in diagnostic thinking abilities or knowledge exam results with the use of VP. Educators can add VP to sessions to motivate students, but a significant improvement to educational outcome should not be expected.
Appropriateness is one of the critical aspects of medicine. For this reason, the Italian Society of Internal Medicine (SIMI) decided to adhere to the Choosing Wisely Campaign. A bottom-up approach was chosen. All the recommendations published in the US and Canadian Choosing Wisely campaign have been screened, and an e-mail was sent to all the SIMI members for new suggestions. The thirty interventions that were judged as the highest priority by a committee were sent to all the SIMI members for voting. The first procedures selected were then revised, and constituted the five points of the SIMI choosing wisely campaign. The identified procedures were: (1) avoid prescribing bed rest unless an acceptable indication exists. Promote early mobilization; (2) Do not perform a D-dimer test without a precise indication; (3) Do not prescribe long term intravenous antibiotic therapy in the absence of symptoms; (4) Do not indefinitely prescribe proton pump inhibitors in the absence of specific indications; (5) Do not place, or leave in place, peripherally inserted central catheters for patient's or provider's convenience. Four of these points were not present in any other campaign, while one, the fifth, was already present. The bottom-up approach of the SIMI 'Choosing Wisely' campaign favored the identification of different priorities compared to other campaigns. Future studies should now evaluate if the application of these 'not-to-do' recommendations will be associated with an improvement of clinical outcome and a subsequent direct and indirect health care cost reduction.
The 2015 Annual General Meeting of The Canadian Society of Clinician Investigators (CSCI) and Clinician Investigator Trainee Association of Canada/Association des Cliniciens-Chercheurs en Formation du Canada (CITAC/ACCFC) was held in Toronto November 23-25, 2015, in conjunction with The University of Toronto Clinician Investigator Program Research Day. The theme for this year's meeting was 'It takes a village' and the focus was the various support systems necessary to train a successful clinician scientist. The meeting featured an opening presentation by Dr. Vincent Dumez and workshops by Dr. Peter Nickerson, Dr. Jane Aubin, Dr. Kelly Warmington and Dr. Norman Rosenblum, and MD/PhD trainees Nardin Samuel, Kevin Wang and Kirill Zaslavsky. The keynote speakers were Dr. David Malkin (Hospital for Sick Children) who received the CSCI-RCPSC Henry Friesen Award, Dr. Brent Richards (McGill University) who received the Joe Doupe Award and Ernesto Shiffrin (Lady Davis Institute) who received the Distinguished Scientist Award. As always, the conference showcased outstanding scientific presentations from clinician investigator trainees from across the country at the Young Investigators' Forum. The research topics, which ranged from basic sciences to clinical medicine and translational work, are summarized in this review. Over 90 abstracts were presented at this year's meeting during two poster sessions, with several of the outstanding abstracts selected for oral presentations.
PURPOSE To develop and determine the reliability of a novel measurement instrument assessing the quality of residents' discharge summaries.   METHOD In 2014, the authors created a discharge summary evaluation instrument based on consensus recommendations from national regulatory bodies and input from primary care providers at their institution. After a brief pilot, they used the instrument to evaluate discharge summaries written by first-year internal medicine residents (n = 24) at a single U.S. teaching hospital during the 2013-2014 academic year. They conducted a generalizability study to determine the reliability of the instrument and a series of decision studies to determine the number of discharge summaries and raters needed to achieve a reliable evaluation score.   RESULTS The generalizability study demonstrated that 37% of the variance reflected residents' ability to generate an adequate discharge summary (true score variance). The decision studies estimated that the mean score from six discharge summary reviews completed by a unique rater for each review would yield a reliability coefficient of 0.75. Because of high interrater reliability, multiple raters per discharge summary would not significantly enhance the reliability of the mean rating.   CONCLUSIONS This evaluation instrument reliably measured residents' performance writing discharge summaries. A single rating of six discharge summaries can achieve a reliable mean evaluation score. Using this instrument is feasible even for programs with a limited number of inpatient encounters and a small pool of faculty preceptors.
BACKGROUND An evidence-based, step-by-step guide, the 4 Pillars Practice Transformation Program, was the foundation of an intervention to increase adult immunizations in primary care and was tested in a randomized controlled cluster trial. The purpose of this study is to report changes in influenza immunization rates and on factors related to receipt of influenza vaccine.   METHODS Twenty five primary care practices were recruited in 2013, stratified by city (Houston, Pittsburgh), location (rural, urban, suburban) and type (family medicine, internal medicine), and randomized to the intervention (n=13) or control (n=12) in Year 1 (2013-14). A follow-up intervention occurred in Year 2 (2014-15). Demographic and vaccination data were derived from de-identified electronic medical record extractions.   RESULTS A cohort of 70,549 adults seen in their respective practices (n=24 with 1 drop out) at least once each year was followed. Baseline mean age was 55.1혻years, 35혻% were men, 21혻% were non-white and 35혻% were Hispanic. After one year, both intervention and control arms significantly (P<0.001) increased influenza vaccination, with average increases of 2.7 to 6.5 percentage points. In regression analyses, likelihood of influenza vaccination was significantly higher in sites with lower percentages of patients with missed opportunities (P<0.001) and, after adjusting for missed opportunities, the intervention further improved vaccination rates in Houston (lower baseline rates) but not Pittsburgh (higher baseline rates). In the follow-up intervention, the likelihood of vaccination increased for both intervention sites and those that reduced missed opportunities (P<0.005).   CONCLUSIONS Reducing missed opportunities across the practice increases likelihood of influenza vaccination of adults. The 4 Pillars Practice Transformation Program provides strategies for reducing missed opportunities to vaccinate adults.   TRIAL REGISTRATION This study was registered as a clinical trial on 03/20/2013 at ClinicalTrials.gov, Clinical Trial Registry Number: NCT01868334 , with a date of enrollment of the first participant to the trial of April 1, 2013.
BACKGROUND Homeopathy use continues to grow in many European countries, and some studies have examined the characteristics of patients using homeopathy within the general population. The aim of this study was to identify predictors for homeopathy use among internal medicine patients.   PATIENTS AND METHODS A cross-sectional analysis was conducted among all patients being referred to the Department of Internal and Integrative Medicine at Essen, Germany, over a 3-year period. The analysis examined whether patients had used homeopathy for their primary medical complaint before, the perceived benefit, and the perceived harm of homeopathy use. Odds ratios with 95% confidence intervals were calculated using multiple logistic regression analysis.   RESULTS Of 2,045 respondents, 715 (35.0%) reported having used homeopathy for their primary medical complaint (diagnosis according to the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems), with 359 (50.2%) reporting perceived benefits and 15 (2.1%) reporting harm. Homeopathy use was positively associated with female gender, high school level education, suffering from fibromyalgia or subthreshold depression, and being fast food abstinent, while patients with osteoarthritis, spinal or other pain, smokers, and patients with a high external-social health locus of control were less likely to use homeopathy.   CONCLUSION Personal characteristics and health status may impact on the use and the perceived helpfulness of homeopathy.
INTRODUCTION To understand if and which patients would be open-minded to Complementary and Alternative Medicine (CAM) use parallel to their oncological treatment. Moreover, we sought to determine which methods are most accepted and which are the primary motivators to use CAM.   METHODS We developed and anonymously conducted a questionnaire for patients in the oncology center (TU Munich). Questions focus on different CAM methods, previous experiences, and willingness to apply or use CAM when offered in a university-based setting.   RESULTS A total of 171 of 376 patients (37.4% women, 62.0% men, 0.6% unknown) participated. This corresponds to a return rate of 45%. Median age was 64 years (17-87 years). Of all participants, 15.2% used CAM during their oncological therapy; 32.7% have used it in the past. The majority (81.9%) was not using CAM during therapy; 55.5% have not used CAM in the past respectively. The analysis revealed a significant correlation between education and CAM use during therapy (r = 0.18; p = 0.02), and CAM use in the past (r = 0.17; p = 0.04). Of all patients using CAM during therapy, favored methods were food supplements (42.3%), vitamins/minerals (42.3%), massage (34.6%). Motivations are especially the reduction of side effect and stress, the positive effect of certain CAM-treatments on the immune system and tumor therapy. Results showed no difference between women and men. Most patients not having had any experience with CAM complain about the deficiency of information by their treating oncologist (31.4%) as well as missing treatment possibilities (54.3%).   CONCLUSION Since many patients believe in study results demonstrating the efficacy of CAM, it stresses our task to develop innovative study protocols to investigate the outcomes of certain CAM on symptom reduction or other endpoints. Thus, prospective trials and innovative evidence-based treatment concepts to include CAM into high-end oncology is what patients demand and what a modern oncology center should offer.
BACKGROUND Combined internal medicine and pediatrics (medicine-pediatrics) residencies were Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) accredited separately from their corresponding categorical residencies in June 2006.   OBJECTIVE We investigated how ACGME accreditation of medicine-pediatrics programs has affected the levels of support (both financial and personnel), the National Resident Matching Program (NRMP) match rate, performance on the board examination, and other graduate outcomes.   METHODS From 2009 through 2013 we sent an annual SurveyMonkey online survey to members of the Medicine-Pediatrics Program Directors Association. Questions pertained to program characteristics, program director support, recruitment, ambulatory training, and graduate data. More than 79% of responders completed the entire survey for each year (sample size was 60 program directors).   RESULTS Compared to the time prior to accreditation of the specialty, there was an increase in program directors who are dually trained (89% versus 93%), an increase in program director salary ($134,000 before accreditation versus $185,000 in 2013, P < .05), and an increase in the average full-time equivalent support (0.32 before accreditation versus 0.42 in 2013, P < .05). There was also an increase in programs with associate program directors (35% versus 78%), programs with chief residents (71% versus 91%), and an increase in program budgets controlled by program directors (52% versus 69%). The 2013 NRMP match rates increased compared to those of 2005 (99% versus 49%). Performance on the American Board of Pediatrics examination was comparable to that for pediatrics residents. Since accreditation, a larger number of residents are choosing careers in hospital medicine.   CONCLUSIONS Our data show widespread improved support for medicine-pediatrics programs since the 2006 start of ACGME accreditation.
BACKGROUND Variation in physicians' practice patterns contributes to unnecessary health care spending, yet the influences of modifiable determinants on practice patterns are not known. Identifying these mutable factors could reduce unnecessary testing and decrease variation in clinical practice.   OBJECTIVE To assess the importance of the residency program relative to physician personality traits in explaining variations in practice intensity (PI), the likelihood of ordering tests and treatments, and in the certainty of their intention to order.   METHODS We surveyed 690 interns and residents from 7 internal medicine residency programs, ranging from small community-based programs to large university residency programs. The surveys consisted of clinical vignettes designed to gauge respondents' preferences for aggressive clinical care, and questions assessing respondents' personality traits. The primary outcome was the participant-level mean response to 23 vignettes as a measure of PI. The secondary outcome was a certainty score (CS) constructed as the proportion of vignettes for which a respondent selected 'definitely' versus 'probably.'   RESULTS A total of 325 interns and residents responded to the survey (47% response rate). Measures of personality traits, subjective norms, demographics, and residency program indicators collectively explained 27.3% of PI variation. Residency program identity was the largest contributor. No personality traits were significantly independently associated with higher PI. The same collection of factors explained 17.1% of CS variation. Here, personality traits were responsible for 63.6% of the explained variation.   CONCLUSIONS Residency program affiliations explained more of the variation in PI than demographic characteristics, personality traits, or subjective norms.
BACKGROUND Burnout is typically viewed as an individual condition, and no link has been identified between burnout and loneliness.   OBJECTIVE To investigate the association of burnout with loneliness and social network degree and centrality.   METHODS A survey containing the Maslach Burnout Inventory (MBI), a 3-question loneliness scale, and a social connectivity component was sent to residents in a large urban academic medical center internal medicine residency program.   RESULTS The response rate was 77% (95 of 124 residents). We defined significant burnout as MBI subscores of  27 for emotional exhaustion (EE),  10 for depersonalization (DP), or both. This was met by 43 (45%), 47 (49%), and 31 (33%) out of 95 respondents, respectively. Those with significant burnout had higher loneliness scores: 5.6 versus 4.5 for EE (P = .002; OR = 1.50; 95% CI 1.15-1.95); 5.4 versus 4.6 for DP (P = .024; OR = 1.33; 95% CI 1.03-1.71); and 5.8 versus 4.6 for both EE and DP (P = .001; OR = 1.54; 95% CI 1.17-2.02). Rating a larger number of coresidents as closer connections on a 5-point Likert scale was not associated with lower burnout scores. No measures of centrality were associated with burnout scores for EE and/or DP. High personal accomplishment subscores on the MBI did correlate significantly with several measures of centrality.   CONCLUSIONS Burnout was associated with loneliness in a dose-dependent fashion. Greater sense of personal accomplishment was associated with greater network centrality.
BACKGROUND Continuity for inpatient medicine has been widely discussed, but methods for measuring it have been lacking.   OBJECTIVE To measure the continuity of care experienced by hospitalized patients and to identify predictors of continuity.   METHODS This was a multisite prospective cohort study and retrospective chart review that took place at 3 hospitals: an academic tertiary care center, a Veterans Affairs medical center, and a community teaching hospital. Subjects were general medicine patients and internal medicine residents. We measured continuity of care using 3 metrics: (1) the percentage of hospital time covered by the primary intern; (2) the amount of time between admission and the first handoff of care; and (3) admission-discharge continuity. We conducted univariate analyses to identify patient and hospital factors that may be associated with each type of continuity of care.   RESULTS Our sample included 869 patients with a mean age of 62.6 years (SD = 17.2) and 34% female patients. The mean percentage of hospital time covered by the primary intern was 39.2% (SD = 16.3%). The mean time between admission and the first handoff of care was 13.3 hours (SD = 7.1). Forty percent of patients experienced admission-discharge continuity. In univariate and multivariable modeling, the site was significantly associated with each type of continuity.   CONCLUSIONS The amount of continuity varied greatly and was influenced by the site and other factors. No site maximized every aspect of continuity. Programs and institutions should decide which aspects of continuity are most important locally and design schedules accordingly.
BACKGROUND Residency is an intense period. Challenges, including burnout, arise as new physicians develop their professional identities. Residency programs provide remediation, but emotional support for interns is often limited. Professional development coaching of interns, regardless of their performance, has not been reported.   OBJECTIVE Design, implement, and evaluate a program to support intern professional development through positive psychology coaching.   METHODS We implemented a professional development coaching program in a large residency program. The program included curriculum development, coach-intern interactions, and evaluative metrics. A total of 72 internal medicine interns and 26 internal medicine faculty participated in the first year. Interns and coaches were expected to meet quarterly; expected time commitments per year were 9 hours (per individual coached) for coaches, 5 1/2 hours for each individual coachee, and 70 hours for the director of the coaching program. Coaches and interns were asked to complete 2 surveys in the first year and to participate in qualitative interviews.   RESULTS Eighty-two percent of interns met with their coaches 3 or more times. Coaches and their interns assessed the program in multiple dimensions (participation, program and professional activities, burnout, coping, and coach-intern communication). Most of the interns (94%) rated the coaching program as good or excellent, and 96% would recommend this program to other residency programs. The experience of burnout was lower in this cohort compared with a prior cohort.   CONCLUSIONS There is early evidence that a coaching program of interactions with faculty trained in positive psychology may advance intern development and partially address burnout.
BACKGROUND Team-based learning (TBL) is used in undergraduate medical education to facilitate higher-order content learning, promote learner engagement and collaboration, and foster positive learner attitudes. There is a paucity of data on the use of TBL in graduate medical education. Our aim was to assess resident engagement, learning, and faculty/resident satisfaction with TBL in internal medicine residency ambulatory education.   METHODS Survey and nominal group technique methodologies were used to assess learner engagement and faculty/resident satisfaction. We assessed medical learning using individual (IRAT) and group (GRAT) readiness assurance tests.   RESULTS Residents (N = 111) involved in TBL sessions reported contributing to group discussions and actively discussing the subject material with other residents. Faculty echoed similar responses, and residents and faculty reported a preference for future teaching sessions to be offered using the TBL pedagogy. The average GRAT score was significantly higher than the average IRAT score by 22%. Feedback from our nominal group technique rank ordered the following TBL strengths by both residents and faculty: (1) interactive format, (2) content of sessions, and (3) competitive nature of sessions.   CONCLUSIONS We successfully implemented TBL pedagogy in the internal medicine ambulatory residency curriculum, with learning focused on the care of patients in the ambulatory setting. TBL resulted in active resident engagement, facilitated group learning, and increased satisfaction by residents and faculty. To our knowledge this is the first study that implemented a TBL program in an internal medicine residency curriculum.
BACKGROUND The low number of medical trainees entering primary care is contributing to the lack of access to primary care services in many countries. Despite the need for primary care physicians in the Middle East, there is limited information regarding trainees' career choices, a critical determinant in the supply of primary care physicians.   OBJECTIVE We analyzed the career choices of medical students in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), with a larger goal of reforming postgraduate training in the region and enhancing the focus on primary care.   METHODS We conducted a cross-sectional survey of applicants to a large established internal medicine residency program in the UAE. We calculated data for demographics, subspecialty choice, and factors affecting subspecialty choice, and we also reported descriptive statistics.   RESULTS Our response rate was 86% (183 of 212). Only 25% of applicants (n = 46) were interested in general internal medicine. The majority of respondents (n = 126, 69%) indicated a desire to pursue subspecialty training, and the remainder chose careers in research or administration. A majority of respondents (73%) were women, unmarried, and childless. Educational debt or lifestyle were not indicated as important factors in career choice.   CONCLUSIONS Low interest in primary care was similar to that in many Western countries, despite a much higher percentage of female applicants and a reduced emphasis on lifestyle or income factors in career decisions. Reasons for the reduced interest in primary care deserve further exploration, as do tests of interventions to increase interest, such as improving the primary care clerkship experience.
Given the burden of rheumatic disease in our society and the anticipated future shortage of rheumatologists, all internal medicine (IM) residencies need to train internists who are capable of caring for patients with rheumatic diseases. The objective of this study was to perform a targeted needs assessment of the self-confidence of IM residents in the evaluation and care of patients with rheumatologic diseases. A 16-item, web-based, self-assessed confidence survey tool was administered to participating post graduate year (PGY)1 (N=83) and PGY3 (N=37) residents. The categories of questions included self-confidence in performing a rheumatologic history and exam, performing common rheumatologic procedures, ordering and interpreting rheumatologic laboratory tests, and caring for patients with common rheumatologic diseases. Resident demographics, prior rheumatology exposure, and career plans were also queried. PGY3 residents had higher self-assessed confidence than PGY1 residents in all categories. Self-assessed confidence in joint procedures was consistently low in both groups and when compared to other categories. Prior exposure to a rheumatology course or elective was not consistently associated with higher self-assessed confidence ratings across all categories. PGY3 residents showed less interest in rheumatology as a career than PGY1 residents, although the interest in the topic of rheumatology was not statistically different. Our needs assessment shows a low level of self-assessed confidence in rheumatology knowledge and skills among IM residents. Despite improvement with PGY year of training, self-assessed confidence remains low. To improve resident's skills and self-confidence in rheumatology, more curricular innovations are needed. Such innovations should be assessed for overall effectiveness.
Extension for Community Healthcare Outcomes creates knowledge networks that enable a transition from centralized specialty care at academic institutions to empowerment of primary care providers to provide more highly skilled care closer to home.
PURPOSE The medical student performance evaluation (MSPE), a letter summarizing academic performance, is included in each medical student's residency application. The extent to which medical schools follow Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) recommendations for comparative and transparent data is not known. This study's purpose was to describe the content, interpretability, and transparency of MSPEs.   METHOD This cross-sectional study examined one randomly selected MSPE from every Liaison Committee on Medical Education-accredited U.S. medical school from which at least one student applied to the Stanford University internal medical residency program during the 2013-2014 application cycle. The authors described the number, distribution, and range of key words and clerkship grades used in the MSPEs and the proportions of schools with missing or incomplete data.   RESULTS The sample included MSPEs from 117 (89%) of 131 medical schools. Sixty schools (51%) provided complete information about clerkship grade and key word distributions. Ninety-six (82%) provided comparative data for clerkship grades, and 71 (61%) provided complete key word data. Key words describing overall performance were extremely heterogeneous, with a total of 72 used and great variation in the assignment of the top designation (median: 24% of students; range: 1%-60%). There was also great variation in the proportion of students awarded the top internal medicine clerkship grade (median: 29%; range: 2%-90%).   CONCLUSIONS The MSPE is a critical component of residency applications, yet data contained within MSPEs are incomplete and variable. Approximately half of U.S. medical schools do not follow AAMC guidelines for MSPEs.
PURPOSE Little is known about the attrition of physicians trained in internal medicine (IM). The authors sought to examine career paths, disciplinary actions, and American Board of Medical Specialties (ABMS) certification status of IM residents.   METHOD Three datasets were combined to study 66,881 residents in Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education-accredited IM residency programs nationwide from 1995 to 2004. Group differences (among an American Board of Internal Medicine [ABIM]-certified cohort; an ABMS-certified cohort (but not ABIM-certified); and a noncertified cohort) in IM residency performance ratings, specialty certification status, year of initial IM training, and medical board disciplinary actions were examined. Analyses included chi-square tests, analysis of variance, pairwise comparisons, and logistic regressions.   RESULTS Ninety-five percent of IM residents obtained ABIM certification; 1.6% received ABMS certification in another specialty; 3.4% received no ABMS specialty certification, of which 74.3% have a current medical license; and 66.6% self-reported IM as their primary specialty. During residency, the ABIM cohort performed better than those who never obtained ABIM certification. Disciplinary actions were lowest for the ABIM cohort (1.2%), 2.4% for the ABMS cohort, and highest and more severe for the noncertified cohort (6.0%).   CONCLUSIONS Only 5% of IM residents do not achieve IM certification. IM resident attrition minimally impacts physician supply, though those without certification appear to contribute disproportionately to poor physician performance indicators. Improved tracking of the U.S. physician workforce could aid policy makers in predicting manpower shifts in certain specialty areas, both during and after residency training.
In many low-income countries where there are few or no neurologists, patients with neurologic diseases are cared for by primary care physicians who receive no formal training in neurology. Here, we report our experience creating a neurology rotation for internal medicine residents in rural Haiti through a collaboration between a public academic medical center in Haiti and a visiting neurologist. We describe the structure of the rotation and the factors that led to its development.
OBJECTIVES To improve malnutrition awareness and management in our department of general internal medicine; to assess patients' nutritional risk; and to evaluate whether an online educational program leads to an increase in basic knowledge and more frequent nutritional therapies.   METHODS A prospective pre-post intervention study at a university department of general internal medicine was conducted. Nutritional screening using Nutritional Risk Score 2002 (NRS 2002) was performed, and prescriptions of nutritional therapies were assessed. The intervention included an online learning program and a pocket card for all residents, who had to fill in a multiple-choice questions (MCQ) test about basic nutritional knowledge before and after the intervention.   RESULTS A total of 342 patients were included in the preintervention phase, and 300 were in the postintervention phase. In the preintervention phase, 54.1% were at nutritional risk (NRS 2002 3) compared with 61.7% in the postintervention phase. There was no increase in the prescription of nutritional therapies (18.7% versus 17.0%). Forty-nine and 41 residents (response rate 58% and 48%) filled in the MCQ test before and after the intervention, respectively. The mean percentage of correct answers was 55.6% and 59.43%, respectively (which was not significant). Fifty of 84 residents completed the online program. The residents who participated in the whole program scored higher on the second MCQ test (63% versus 55% correct answers, P = 0.031).   CONCLUSIONS Despite a high ratio of malnourished patients, the nutritional intervention, as assessed by nutritional prescriptions, is insufficient. However, the simple educational program via Internet and usage of NRS 2002 pocket cards did not improve either malnutrition awareness or nutritional treatment. More sophisticated educational systems to fight malnutrition are necessary.
BACKGROUND Opioid dependency currently affects over 2.5 million patients in the United States and is increasing in incidence. Office-based opioid therapy with buprenorphine-naloxone provides greater patient access to treatment and has significantly improved therapeutic outcomes.   METHODS We conducted a study of 100 consecutive patients treated for opioid dependence with buprenorphine-naloxone in a single provider's community-based internal medicine practice. The primary outcome measures were retention in therapy, wellness, and abstinence from ongoing drug use. Data were obtained from frequent physical examinations, self-report data, and periodic urine drug screening.   RESULTS The retention rate in therapy was 75%. A multidimensional evaluation of wellness improved in 75% of the patients. Eighty-five percent reported no opiate relapse during therapy.   CONCLUSION Office-based opioid therapy with buprenorphine-naloxone has provided greater access to therapy with improved therapeutic outcomes. Our findings support the mounting literature that more patients should be offered office-based opioid therapy for opioid dependency.
BACKGROUND In Israel, where the 'Do not resuscitate code' and 'advanced directives' are not yet universally practiced, physicians are frequently 'forced' to mechanically ventilate patients despite an upfront unfavorable prognosis. Due to the shortage of intensive care unit (ICU) beds, patients are mostly hospitalized in general medicine wards.   OBJECTIVES To differentiate between patients with particularly grim prognoses and those with good prognoses, in order to inform the potential decision-making process regarding whether or not to offer aggressive medical care.   METHODS This retrospective study included all mechanically ventilated patients hospitalized exclusively in one of the six general internal medicine wards at the Assaf Harofeh Medical Center during 2009-2010. Demographic and ventilation-related data, laboratory values and main medical diagnoses were correlated to in-hospital mortality.   RESULTS The study group comprised 437 patients with a median age of 83 years. Mortality was 72%. Initiation of mechanical ventilation out of the hospital or in the emergency room improved outcome. Age, anemia, leukocytosis and renal failure correlated negatively to outcome. In-hospital mortality was 80% in patients after in-hospital resuscitation, 90% in patients ventilated due to infections, but 50% in patients ventilated for cardiac or respiratory failure.   CONCLUSIONS The prognosis of mechanically ventilated patients can be foreseen, which could help in deciding whether aggressive life support would be in the interest of the patient.
Catheter-associated urinary tract infections (CA-UTI) are estimated to be the most frequent nosocomial infections (40%). A catheter is introduced to 10-25% of inpatients, and is often left on site for a long period of time. We carried out a prospective study on inpatients of our Internal Medicine ward to assess the incidence of CA-UTI under the implementation of corrective action. All inpatients who underwent introduction of a urinary catheter upon or after admission to our ward were included in the study. Patients with bacteriuria or positive urine culture before catheterization, others with less than 24 hours catheterism, or bearing a catheter on admission were all excluded from the study. CA-UTI diagnosis was assessed on the basis of CDC 2009 guidelines. The investigation was held between June 2010 and March 2013 in five steps or phases. In the first phase open circuit drainage catheterism was used, in the second phase close circuit drainage catheterism was introduced, while in the third phase disposable lubrification was added to closed circuit drainage catheterism. In the next step (phase 4) we introduced number of days of catheterism control and nurse training; in the last phase (5) emptying urine collection bags on a container was added. In phase 1 we estimated six UTIs out of 18 patients (incidence 33%), in phase 2 we had four infections out of 10 patients (40%). Given the results, we had to reflect on the quality of the procedures of catheter positioning and management . Where feasible, we improved technical practices and during follow-up there was evidence of CA-UTI in 10 patients over 25 (phase 3, 40%), and eight infections over 25 (phase 4, 32%). Once all these steps had been implemented, in phase 5 we determined a sharp reduction in CA-UTI (2 patients over 27, or 7.5%, p=0.025). This improvement was particularly evident in the rate of infection per days of catheter, which was reduced from 43.4/1000 to 13.6/1000. Although the statistical power of the present study has its limitations, we attained a significant reduction in catheter-associated UTIs through the implementation of close circuit catheterism and improvements in care practices.
PROBLEM Nationally, shortages of primary care providers are of major concern. Internal medicine programs, once the major supplier of primary care physicians, are no longer producing large numbers of primary care providers to help meet the needs of the growing patient population.   APPROACH In 2009, residents at the University of New Mexico created a resident-driven Primary Care Track (PCT) within the internal medicine residency, and after six years this track is thriving. The PCT allows residents to designate blocks of time specifically devoted to primary care training. Residents opt in to the track at the end of intern year and arrange their own schedules over large blocks of time in the last two years of training to allow for an individualized curriculum that prepares them for independent practice in primary care.   OUTCOMES Approximately 85% (11/13) of residents who have graduated from the track have gone on to practice in primary care after graduation, and the internal medicine residency program as a whole has also seen an increase in the fraction of residents pursuing primary care since the inception of this track.   NEXT STEPS The PCT is currently at maximum capacity and may be forced to turn away applicants. To expand while still maintaining the core principles of the track, the PCT will strive to find additional ways to use New Mexico's existing resources and to develop a more robust mentoring structure and didactic programs. Formalized financial, faculty, and administrative support of the program also will be needed.
Current U.S. primary care workforce shortages and trainees' declining interest in primary care residency training, especially regarding primary care internal medicine, have many parallels with circumstances in the early 1970s, when modern adult primary care first emerged. Rediscovery of the lessons learned and the solutions developed at that time and applying them to the current situation have the potential to help engage a new generation of young physicians in the primary care mission.The author compares the internal medicine residency primary care track at the University of New Mexico, described by Brislen and colleagues in this issue, with the nation's first three-year primary care internal medicine residency track introduced at Massachusetts General Hospital in 1973. Strategies for addressing the challenges of primary care practice and improving learner attitudes toward the field are discussed. The author suggests that primary care physicians should be likened to 'quarterbacks' rather than 'gatekeepers' or 'providers' to underscore the intensity of training, level of responsibility, degree of professionalism, and amount of compensation required for this profession. The advent of multidisciplinary team practice, modern health information technology, and fundamental payment reform promises to dramatically alter the picture of primary care, restoring its standing as one of the best job descriptions in medicine.
PURPOSE To add to the small body of validity research addressing whether scores from performance assessments of clinical skills are related to performance in supervised patient settings, the authors examined relationships between United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) Step 2 Clinical Skills (CS) data gathering and data interpretation scores and subsequent performance in history taking and physical examination in internal medicine residency training.   METHOD The sample included 6,306 examinees from 238 internal medicine residency programs who completed Step 2 CS for the first time in 2005 and whose performance ratings from their first year of residency training were available. Hierarchical linear modeling techniques were used to examine the relationships among Step 2 CS data gathering and data interpretation scores and history-taking and physical examination ratings.   RESULTS Step 2 CS data interpretation scores were positively related to both history-taking and physical examination ratings. Step 2 CS data gathering scores were not related to either history-taking or physical examination ratings after other USMLE scores were taken into account.   CONCLUSIONS Step 2 CS data interpretation scores provide useful information for predicting subsequent performance in history taking and physical examination in supervised practice and thus provide validity evidence for their intended use as an indication of readiness to enter supervised practice. The results show that there is less evidence to support the usefulness of Step 2 CS data gathering scores. This study provides important information for practitioners interested in Step 2 CS specifically or in performance assessments of medical students' clinical skills more generally.
INTRODUCTION The method for selecting medical graduates for residency positions has a strong influence on teaching and learning strategies in medical schools. The methodology currently used in Spain does not seem appropriate for ranking the candidates or improving curriculum development. Thus, and taking into account the most consistent methodologies used in the United Kingdom and USA, we have designed a new method to be used in our country.   OBJECTIVES To analyze the limitations of the methodology used in Spain, and propose a new one aimed to improve the accuracy of selection itself and avoiding the negative influence of the current method on curricular development. In addition, we emphasize the necessity of improving teaching and learning in the clinical context to assure that graduating students reach an adequate level of clinical competence.   CONCLUSIONS The method for selecting candidates to residency post currently used in Spain, which relies mainly on testing theoretical knowledge, should be changed for an alternative methodology taking into account student,s performance through the course and assessing his/her ability for cl챠nical contextualization of knowledge and level of clinical competence.
RATIONALE Effective teamwork is fundamental to the management of medical emergencies, and yet the best method to teach teamwork skills to trainees remains unknown.   OBJECTIVES In a cohort of incoming internal medicine interns, we tested the hypothesis that expert demonstration of teamwork principles and participation in high-fidelity simulation would each result in objectively assessed teamwork behavior superior to traditional didactics.   METHODS This was a randomized, controlled, parallel-group trial comparing three teamwork teaching modalities for incoming internal medicine interns. Participants in a single-day orientation at the Vanderbilt University Center for Experiential Learning and Assessment were randomized 1:1:1 to didactic, demonstration-based, or simulation-based instruction and then evaluated in their management of a simulated crisis by five independent, blinded observers using the Teamwork Behavioral Rater score. Clinical performance was assessed using the American Heart Association Advanced Cardiac Life Support algorithm and a novel 'Recognize, Respond, Reassess' score.   MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS Participants randomized to didactics (n = 18), demonstration (n = 17), and simulation (n = 17) were similar at baseline. The primary outcome of average overall Teamwork Behavioral Rater score for those who received demonstration-based training was similar to simulation participation (4.40 짹 1.15 vs. 4.10 짹 0.95, P = 0.917) and significantly higher than didactic instruction (4.40 짹 1.15 vs. 3.10 짹 0.51, P = 0.045). Clinical performance scores were similar between the three groups and correlated only weakly with teamwork behavior (coefficient of determination [Rs(2)] = 0.267, P < 0.001).   CONCLUSIONS Among incoming internal medicine interns, teamwork training by expert demonstration resulted in similar teamwork behavior to participation in high-fidelity simulation and was more effective than traditional didactics. Clinical performance was largely independent of teamwork behavior and did not differ between training modalities.
OBJECTIVES Whether salary disparities exist between men and women in medical education leadership roles is not known. The study objective was to determine whether salary disparities exist between male and female Internal Medicine residency program directors, and if so, to identify factors associated with the disparities and explore historical trends.   METHODS The annual Association of Program Directors in Internal Medicine (APDIM) survey in August 2012 included items to assess the salary and demographic characteristics of program directors, which were merged with publically available program data. To assess historical trends, we used similarly obtained survey data from 2008 to 2011. The study included program directors of 370 APDIM member programs, representing 95.6% of the 387 accredited Internal Medicine training programs in the United States and Puerto Rico. Of the 370 APDIM member programs, 241 (65.1%) completed the survey, of whom 169 (70.1%) were men and 72 (29.9%) were women. Program directors' total annual salary, measured in $25,000 increments, ranged from $75,000 or less to more than $400,000. Historical trends of mode salary by gender from 2008 to 2012 were assessed.   RESULTS The mode salary was $200,000 to 225,000 for men and $175,000 to $200,000 for women (P = .0005). After controlling for academic rank, career in general internal medicine, and program director age, the distribution of salary remained different by gender (P = .004). Historical trends show that the difference in mode salary has persisted since 2008.   CONCLUSIONS Leaders in academic medical centers, residency and fellowship directors, and all faculty in medical education need to be aware that salary disparities cited decades ago persist in this sample of medical educators. Closing the gender gap will require continued advocacy for measuring and reporting salary gaps, and changing the culture of academic medical centers.
BACKGROUND Preparing high quality discharge summaries is difficult for first year residents. For 5 years we have been training fourth year students how to write discharge summaries. Our goal is to facilitate the students' start into clinical work. Moreover, we intend to provide the students with a scheme to better memorize patients' histories. Two years after the tutorial the graduates were asked to evaluate the tutorial and to comment on its learning effects.   METHODS A total of 1228 fourth year students wrote a discharge summary on a patient in whose care the specific student was involved during his or her training in internal medicine. All summaries were read, commented on and graded by a consultant. Two years after the tutorial 310 graduates were invited to complete an online survey on this tutorial.   RESULTS 106 (34%) of all invited graduates completed the survey. The opinions on the tutorial greatly differed. In principal the students agreed that the tutorial was an important part of medical training and helped to better structure patients' medical data. The majority of the surveyed graduates, however, were not convinced of its practical usefulness for daily work. The students with the poorer grading found their grade less appropriate than the students with the better grading.   CONCLUSIONS Though our main goal could not be achieved in the view of the graduates, the overall opinion was rather positive. Problems with this kind of tutorial lay in the enormous effort of correction and in the discouraging effect of grading on the students with difficulties in the task.
BACKGROUND Failures in communication at the time of patient handoff have been implicated as contributing factors to preventable adverse events.   OBJECTIVE Examine the relationship between face-to-face handoffs and the rate of patient outcomes, including adverse events.   DESIGN Retrospective cohort.   SETTING A 1157-bed academic tertiary referral hospital.   PATIENTS There were 805 adult patients admitted to general internal medicine services.   INTERVENTION Retrospective comparison of clinical outcomes, including the rate of adverse events, of patients whose care was transitioned with and without face-to-face handoffs.   MEASUREMENTS Rapid response team calls, code team calls, transfers to a higher level of care, death in hospital, 30-day readmission rate, length of stay, and adverse events (as identified using the Global Trigger Tool).   RESULTS There was no significant difference with respect to the frequency of rapid response team calls, code team calls, transfers to a higher level of care, deaths in hospital, length of stay, 30-day readmission rate, or adverse events between patients whose care was transitioned with or without a face-to-face handoff.   CONCLUSIONS Face-to-face handoff of patients admitted to general medical services at a large academic tertiary referral hospital was not associated with a significant difference in measured patient outcomes, including the rate of adverse events, compared to a non-face-to-face handoff. Additional study is needed to determine the qualities of patient handoff that optimize efficiency and safety.
Adrenal insufficiency (AI) is a rare disease caused by destruction of the adrenal glands or dysfunction of the pituitary gland or the hypothalamus. Treatment usually requires lifelong replacement therapy with glucocorticoids. Correct use of glucocorticoids and early dose adjustments are essential to cover the increased glucocorticoid demand in stress. Repeated education of patients and their partners is the best strategy to avoid life-threatening emergencies. However, there is a debate whether physicians' knowledge regarding AI is sufficient, in part due to the rareness of this endocrine disorder. To determine the present specific knowledge of physicians in a large University Department of Internal Medicine with a clinically and scientifically active Division of Endocrinology, all interns, residents / fellows, specialists or senior physicians / consultants were asked to complete a questionnaire with various possible answers on the subject of AI (n=69, median age 30 years, range 23-49 years). The present data suggest that in the investigated University Hospital setting current physicians' knowledge of medical replacement strategies in AI may be insufficient depending on the level of education and experience. Even physicians with training in endocrinology in part demonstrated extensive knowledge gaps. There might be a need for additional structured information and training on AI, even in specialized hospitals.
OBJECTIVES Demand for specialty care exceeds supply in many healthcare systems in the United States. Preconsultation exchange has the potential to increase access to specialty care, and increase its timeliness and efficiency, by triaging need and urgency and streamlining the previsit workup. We sought to characterize attitudes toward, use of, and concerns regarding preconsultation exchange among US internists.   STUDY DESIGN Prospective cross-sectional survey.   METHODS We administered a Web-based survey to a large national panel of US internists maintained by the American College of Physicians.   RESULTS Response rate was 55% (N=451) with minimal differences between responders and nonresponders. Of responders, only 13% were initially familiar with the term 'preconsultation exchange,' but once defined, 28% were classified as frequent users, 40% as occasional users, and 32% as rare/never users. Internists used preconsultation exchange to: guide the prespecialty visit workup (78%), answer clinical questions without a patient visit to the specialist (71%), triage referral urgency (67%), and transfer referrals to a more appropriate specialty (47%). Responders supported multiple benefits of preconsultation exchange, but also reported concerns regarding reimbursement, liability, physicians taking personal responsibility for patient care, and inadequate exchange of clinical information. Compared with primary care physicians, specialists recognized more benefits of preconsultation exchange, but also expressed more concerns. The majority of responders reported increased willingness to use preconsultation exchange if specific remedies were applied.   CONCLUSIONS Most US internists participate in preconsultation exchange and agree with its potential benefits. However, important concerns and barriers exist. Methods to reduce barriers to preconsultation exchange should be identified.
This paper outlines specific tips for those applying to pulmonary and/or critical care medicine fellowship training in the United States using the PAIR-Match steps: preparation, application, interview, ranking, and match. Preparation for fellowship begins long before the application process with an assessment of one's long-term goals (to the extent that these are known). The cornerstone of the application is the curriculum vitae, which should highlight applicants' pulmonary and critical care-related experiences and scholarly work. Applicants should obtain letters of recommendation from faculty members who know them well and can write a letter that speaks to their strengths in clinical, scholarly, or leadership areas. The personal statement is an opportunity to share experiences not otherwise shared in the application and is an opportunity to explain any breaks in training or performance lapses. When selecting programs to which they will apply, applicants should pay close attention to the areas of education and curriculum, clinical experience, scholarly opportunity, and personal factors. Preparing for interviews should include a review of the program at which one is interviewing and development of relevant questions regarding details of the program. The interview day is the applicant's opportunity to see the 'personality' of the program by meeting with the program director, faculty, and current fellows and to assess whether the program is a good fit for their goals. Applicants should only rank those programs they are willing to attend, in order of preference; they should be aware that the match process is binding.
AIMS This study addresses the common practice of providing aggressive treatments of limited clinical benefit and cost-effectiveness to seriously ill and frail elderly. We have created a statistical model of 6-month mortality risk prediction following acute hospitalisation admission, and identified a subset of patients with poorest prognosis that requires comfort-focused care.   METHODS We have studied electronic medical records of 26,937 patients age 65 years or older, hospitalised in the internal medicine departments of one tertiary-care teaching medical center in Northern Israel from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2011 and mortality data from the Israeli Internal Ministry Registry. Norton score records were employed for the performance status evaluation. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was used to predict the risk of 6-month mortality.   RESULTS Variables associated with an increased risk of 6-month mortality included: metastatic cancer, age above 85 years, decreased values of blood albumin and haemoglobin, increased blood urea nitrogen and decreased physical/mental status and activity. The receiver operating characteristic area for the predicted probability of death was 0.845 and 0.847 in external validation cohort. Using predictive values of the logistic regression analysis, the study cohort was stratified into six groups with various predictive mortality risks.   CONCLUSION The majority of deaths that have occurred within 6 months following the acute hospitalisation could be predicted on patient admission based on a few simple and easily obtained parameters. Earlier recognition of patients nearing the end of their lives may lead to better care and more efficient use of available resource.
RATIONALE, AIMS AND OBJECTIVES Israel's healthcare system has been facing increasing hospital bed shortage over the last few decades. Community-based services and shortening length of stay have helped to ease this problem, but hospitals continue to suffer from serious overload and saturation. The objective of this study is to present hospitalization trends in Israel's internal medicine departments.   METHODS The data is based on the National Hospital Discharges database (NHDR) in the Israeli Health Ministry, pertaining to hospitalizations in all internal medicine departments nationwide between 2000 and 2012.   RESULTS Total yearly hospitalization days, representing healthcare burden, had increased by 4.2% during the study period, driven mainly by the most advanced age groups. The rate of total hospitalization days per 100,000 people for all the age groups has decreased by 17.6%, but the oldest patient group had a modest reduction in comparison (7.5%). The parameter of age correlated with length of stay and readmission rates, and neither decreased during the surveyed years.   CONCLUSIONS These results demonstrated that the healthcare burden on acute internal medicine services has been reduced mostly for middle-aged populations but only modestly for elderly populations. The length of hospital stay and the readmission rates have reached and maintained a plateau in recent years, regardless of age. The findings of this study call for planning specific to elderly populations in light of changing demographics. Possible directions may include renewed emphasis on internal medicine and geriatric medicine, and efforts to shorten hospitalization time by extended utilization of multidisciplinary primary care.
BACKGROUND Although high-value care (HVC) that balances benefits of tests or treatments against potential harms and costs has been a recently emphasized competency for internal medicine (IM) residents, few tools to assess residents' knowledge of HVC are available.   OBJECTIVE To describe the development and initial results of an HVC subscore of the Internal Medicine In-Training Examination (IM-ITE).   DESIGN The HVC concepts were introduced to IM-ITE authors during question development. Three physicians independently reviewed each examination question for selection in the HVC subscore according to 6 HVC principles. The final subscore was determined by consensus. Data from the IM-ITE administered in October 2012 were analyzed at the program level.   SETTING U.S. IM residency programs.   PARTICIPANTS 362 U.S. IM residency programs with IM-ITE data for at least 10 residents.   MEASUREMENTS Program-level performance on the HVC subscore was compared with performance on the overall IM-ITE, the Dartmouth Atlas hospital care intensity (HCI) index of the program's primary training hospital, and residents' attitudes about HVC assessed with a voluntary survey.   RESULTS The HVC subscore comprised 38 questions, including 21 (55%) on managing conservatively when appropriate and 14 (37%) on identifying low-value care. Of the 362 U.S. IM programs in the sample, 41% were in a different quartile when ranked based on the HVC subscore compared with overall IM-ITE performance. Rankings by HVC subscore and HCI index were modestly inversely associated, with 30% of programs ranked in the same quartile based on both measures.   LIMITATION Knowledge of HVC assessed from examination vignettes may not reflect practice of HVC.   CONCLUSION Although the HVC subscore has face validity and can contribute to evaluation of residents' HVC knowledge, additional tools are needed to accurately measure residents' proficiency in HVC.   PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE None.
Diabetes mellitus as comorbidity is present in 20-25% of patients suffering from high blood pressure. Because simultaneous presence of these two diseases results in a significant increase of cardiovascular risk, various guidelines chiefly focus on the antihypertensive treatment of patients with diabetes. Combined drug therapy is usually required to achieve the blood pressure target value of <140/85 mmHg defined for patients with diabetes, which must be based on angiotensin converting enzyme-inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers. These can be/must be combined with low dose, primarily thiazide-like diuretics, calcium channel blockers with neutral metabolic effect, and further options include the addition of beta blockers, imidazoline-l-receptor antagonists, or alpha-1-adrenoreceptor blockers. Evidence-based guidelines are obviously present in local practice. Although most of the patients receive angiotensin converting enzyme-inhibitor+indapamide or angiotensin converting enzyme-inhibitor+calcium channel blocker combined therapy with favorable metabolic effects, yet the use of angiotensin converting enzyme-inhibitors containing hydrochlorothiazide having diabetogenic potential, and angiotensin receptor blocker fixed combinations is still widespread. Similarly, interesting therapeutic practice can be observed with the use of less differentiated beta blockers, where the 3rd generation carvedilol and nebivolol are still in minority.
BACKGROUND With new resident duty-hour regulations, resident work schedules have progressively transitioned towards shift-based systems, sometimes resulting in increased team fragmentation. We hypothesized that exposure to shift-based schedules and subsequent team fragmentation would negatively affect medical student experiences during their third-year internal medicine clerkship.   DESIGN As part of a larger national study on duty-hour reform, 67 of 150 eligible third-year medical students completed surveys about career choice, teaching and supervision, assessment, patient care, well-being, and attractiveness of a career in internal medicine after completing their internal medicine clerkship. Students who rotated to hospitals with shift-based systems were compared to those who did not. Non-demographic variables used a five-point Likert scale. Chi-squared and Fisher's exact tests were used to assess the relationships between exposure to shift-based schedules and student responses. Questions with univariate p  0.1 were included in multivariable logistic regression models.   RESULTS Thirty-six students (54%) were exposed to shift-based schedules. Students exposed to shift-based schedules were less likely to perceive that their attendings were committed to teaching (odds ratio [OR] 0.35, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.13-0.90, p = 0.01) or perceive that residents had sufficient exposure to assess their performance (OR 0.29, 95% CI: 0.09-0.91, p = 0.03). However, those students were more likely to feel their interns were able to observe them at the bedside (OR 1.89, 95% CI: 1.08-3.13, p = 0.02) and had sufficient exposure to assess their performance (OR 3.00, 95% CI: 1.01-8.86, p = 0.05).   CONCLUSIONS These findings suggest that shift-based schedules designed in response to duty-hour reform may have important broader implications for the teaching environment.
Several studies have demonstrated that using a template for recording general and diagnostic information in the medical record (MR) improves the completeness of MR documentation, communication between doctors, and performance of doctors. However, little is known about how therapeutic information should be structured in the MR. The aim of this study was to investigate which specific therapeutic information registrars and consultants in internal medicine consider essential to record in the MR. Therefore, we carried out a 2-round Internet Delphi study. Fifty-nine items were assessed on a 5-point scale; an item was considered important if  80% of the respondents awarded it a score of 4 or 5. In total, 26 registrars and 30 consultants in internal medicine completed both rounds of the study. Overall, they considered it essential to include information about 11 items in the MR. Subgroup analyses revealed that the registrars considered 8 additional items essential, whereas the consultants considered 1 additional item essential to record. Study findings can be used as a starting point to develop a structured section of the MR for therapeutic information for both paper and electronic MRs. This section should contain at least 11 items considered essential by registrars and clinical consultants in internal medicine.
INTRODUCTION Bone marrow aspirate and trephine (BMAT) biopsy is a commonly performed procedure in hematology-oncology practice. Although complications are uncommon, they can cause significant morbidity and mortality. Simulation models are an excellent tool to teach novice doctors basic procedural skills before performing the actual procedure on patients to improve patient safety and well-being.   METHODS There are no commercial BMAT simulators, and this technical report describes the rationale, technical specifications, and construction of a low-cost, easily constructed, reusable BMAT simulator that reproduced the tactile properties of tissue layers for use as a teaching tool in our resident BMAT simulation course. Preliminary data of learner responses to the simulator were also collected.   RESULTS From April 2013 to November 2013, 32 internal medicine residents underwent the BMAT simulation course. Eighteen (56%) completed the online survey, 11 residents with previous experience doing BMAT and 7 without experience. Despite the difference in operative experience, both experienced and novice residents all agreed or strongly agreed that the model aided their understanding of the BMAT procedure. All agreed or strongly agreed that this enhanced their knowledge of anatomy and 16 residents (89%) agreed or strongly agreed that this model was a realistic simulator.   CONCLUSIONS We present a novel, low-cost, easily constructed, realistic BMAT simulator for training novice doctors to perform BMAT.
BACKGROUND Dietary supplements may have adverse effects and potentially interact with conventional medications. They are perceived as 'natural' products, free of side effects with no need for medical consultation. Little is known about consumption of dietary supplements by patients with cardiac diseases. The objective of this study was to investigate dietary supplement consumption among cardiac patients admitted to internal and cardiology wards. Potential drug-dietary supplement interactions were also assessed.   METHODS During a period of 6 months, patients with cardiac disease hospitalized in the Internal Medicine and Cardiology Wards at Assaf Harofeh Medical Center were evaluated regarding their dietary supplement consumption. A literature survey examining possible drug-supplement interaction was performed.   RESULTS Out of 149 cardiac patients, 45% were dietary supplement consumers. Patients ad-mitted to the Internal Medicine Wards consumed more dietary supplements than those admit-ted to the Cardiology Division. Dietary supplement consumption was associated with older age (OR = 1.05, p = 0.022), female gender (OR = 2.94, p = 0.014) and routine physical activity (OR = 3.15, p = 0.007). Diabetes mellitus (OR = 2.68, p = 0.020), hematological diseases (OR = 13.29, p = 0.022), and the use of anti-diabetic medications (OR = 4.28, p = 0.001) were independently associated with dietary supplement intake. Sixteen potential moderate interactions between prescribed medications and dietary supplements were found.   CONCLUSIONS Consumption of dietary supplements is common among cardiac patients. It is more common in those admitted to Internal Medicine Departments than in those admitted to the Cardiology Wards. Due to the risk of various drug-supplement interactions consumed by patients with cardiac diseases, there is a need to increase awareness and knowledge among medical staff regarding the intake of dietary supplements.
BACKGROUND Room transfers are suspected to promote the development of delirium in hospitalized elderly patients, but no studies have systematically examined the relationship between room transfers and delirium incidence. We used a case-control study to determine if the number of room transfers per patient days is associated with an increased incidence of delirium amongst hospitalized elderly medical patients, controlling for baseline risk factors.   METHODS We included patients 70 years of age or older who were admitted to the internal medicine or geriatric medicine services at St. Michael's Hospital between October 2009 and September 2010 for more than 24 h. The cases consisted of patients who developed delirium during the first week of hospital stay. The controls consisted of patients who did not develop delirium during the first week of hospital stay. Patients with evidence of delirium at admission were excluded from the analysis. A multivariable logistic regression model was used to determine the relationship between room transfers and delirium development within the first week of hospital stay.   RESULTS 994 patients were included in the study, of which 126 developed delirium during the first week of hospital stay. Using a multivariable logistic regression model which controlled for age, gender, cognitive impairment, vision impairment, dehydration, and severe illness, room transfers per patient days were associated with delirium incidence (OR: 9.69, 95 % CI (6.20 to15.16), P < 0.0001).   CONCLUSIONS An increased number of room transfers per patient days is associated with an increased incidence of delirium amongst hospitalized elderly medical patients. This is an exploratory analysis and needs confirmation with larger studies.
Symptomatology of oncological diseases consists not only of local symptoms caused by the primary malignancy or its metastases, but also by general systemic signs that are not directly connected with the tumor. These symptoms are mostly associated with auto-immunity or endocrine influences. In many cases, the source of paraneoplastic syndromes (PNS) is unknown. Nearly 15% of oncological patients demonstrate these syndromes but it is diagnosed much more rarely. The survey of the numerous PNS is offered. The significance of the PNS differs for oncologists and other physicians who encounter it in their practice. The reason of those differences, as well as the connection between PNS and cancer toxicity is discussed. The experience of antitoxic therapy (hemosorption, lymphosorption, enterosorption) used in our clinic in the previous years is overviewed.
BACKGROUND Increasing concerns over the effectiveness and quality of continuing medical education (CME) programs has encouraged educators to use theoretically driven empirical research to improve the educational value of these activities. Within cognitive psychology, theories of learning and knowledge acquisition, such as test-enhanced learning (TEL), may be used to enhance the effectiveness of CME protocols and delivery. The present study examined whether the pedagogical benefits of testing can be observed in practicing physicians.   METHODS A total of 83 physicians were recruited following an education session on constipation management and were randomized to either (a) the test condition (n = 43), where learners wrote a short test consisting of 10 short-answer questions (SAQs), or (b) the study condition (n = 40), where learners studied the same information. Four weeks later, 56 (68%) physicians completed a final test with 10 new SAQs, with 27 being from the initial test condition and 29 belonging to the initial study condition.   RESULTS Performance on the final SAQ test was equivalent for both test (42.5%) and study-only (41.2%) conditions (p = .71).   DISCUSSION The null findings in the present study are inconsistent with previous research showing the pedagogical benefits of testing relative to studying. Given that most TEL research focuses on novice learners, who lack strong associative memory networks, it is possible that TEL is specific to novices and not generalizable to experts. Alternative explanations focus on the importance of repeated, distributed testing with feedback.
INTERMED training implies a three week course, integrated in the 'primary care module' for medical students in the first master year at the school of medicine in Lausanne. INTERMED uses an innovative teaching method based on repetitive sequences of e-learning-based individual learning followed by collaborative learning activities in teams, named Team-based learning (TBL). The e-learning takes place in a web-based virtual learning environment using a series of interactive multimedia virtual patients. By using INTERMED students go through a complete medical encounter applying clinical reasoning and choosing the diagnostic and therapeutic approach. INTERMED offers an authentic experience in an engaging and safe environment where errors are allowed and without consequences.
Clozapine was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration in 1989 for the management of treatment-resistant schizophrenia, and has since proven to reduce symptom burden and suicide risk, increase quality of life, and reduce substance use in individuals with psychotic disorders. Nevertheless, clozapine's psychiatric benefits have been matched by its adverse effect profile. Because they are likely to encounter medical complications of clozapine during admissions or consultations for other services, hospitalists are compelled to maintain an appreciation for these iatrogenic conditions. The authors outline common (eg, constipation, sialorrhea, weight gain) and serious (eg, agranulocytosis, seizures, myocarditis) medical complications of clozapine treatment, with internist-targeted recommendations for management, including indications for clozapine discontinuation.
This article explores how structural factors associated with the profession and organization of medicine can constrain internal medicine residents, leading them to sometimes limit or terminate treatment in end-of-life care in ways that do not always embrace patient autonomy. Specifically, it examines the opportunities and motivations that explain why residents sometimes arrogate decision-making for themselves about life-sustaining treatment. Using ethnographic data drawn from over two years at an American community hospital, I contend that unlike previous studies which aggregate junior and senior physicians' perspectives, medical trainees face unique constraints that can lead them to intentionally or unintentionally overlook patient preferences. This is especially salient in cases where they misunderstand their patients' wishes, disagree about what is in their best interest, and/or lack the standing to pursue alternative ethical approaches to resolving these tensions. The study concludes with recommendations that take into account the structural underpinnings of arrogance in decision-making about life-sustaining treatment.
BACKGROUND Studies reveal that 44.5% of abstracts presented at national meetings are subsequently published in indexed journals, with lower rates for abstracts of medical education scholarship.   OBJECTIVE We sought to determine whether the quality of medical education abstracts is associated with subsequent publication in indexed journals, and to compare the quality of medical education abstracts presented as scientific abstracts versus innovations in medical education (IME).   DESIGN Retrospective cohort study.   PARTICIPANTS Medical education abstracts presented at the Society of General Internal Medicine (SGIM) 2009 annual meeting.   MAIN MEASURES Publication rates were measured using database searches for full-text publications through December 2013. Quality was assessed using the validated Medical Education Research Study Quality Instrument (MERSQI).   KEY RESULTS Overall, 64 (44%) medical education abstracts presented at the 2009 SGIM annual meeting were subsequently published in indexed medical journals. The MERSQI demonstrated good inter-rater reliability (intraclass correlation range, 0.77-1.00) for grading the quality of medical education abstracts. MERSQI scores were higher for published versus unpublished abstracts (9.59 vs. 8.81, p=0.03). Abstracts with a MERSQI score of 10 or greater were more likely to be published (OR 3.18, 95% CI 1.47-6.89, p=0.003). ). MERSQI scores were higher for scientific versus IME abstracts (9.88 vs. 8.31, p<0.001). Publication rates were higher for scientific abstracts (42 [66%] vs. 37 [46%], p=0.02) and oral presentations (15 [23%] vs. 6 [8%], p=0.01).   CONCLUSIONS The publication rate of medical education abstracts presented at the 2009 SGIM annual meeting was similar to reported publication rates for biomedical research abstracts, but higher than publication rates reported for medical education abstracts. MERSQI scores were associated with higher abstract publication rates, suggesting that attention to measures of quality--such as sampling, instrument validity, and data analysis--may improve the likelihood that medical education abstracts will be published.
OBJECTIVE Patients admitted to the Department of Ophthalmology (OPH) are of increasing age, comorbidity and complexity, leading to increased consultations/referrals to Internal Medicine (IM). An alternative to consultations/referrals is co-management. The effect of co-management on length of hospital stay was studied in patients admitted to OPH.   METHODS Retrospective observational study was performed that included patients 14 years old discharged from OPH between 1 January 2009 and 30 June 2013, who were co-managed from May 2011. An analysis was made including age, sex, type of admission, whether it was operated on, administrative weight associated with GRD, total number of discharge diagnoses, Charlson comorbidity index (CCI), mortality, readmissions, and LoS.   RESULTS There were statistically significant differences between the groups in operated patients (odds ratio [OR] 2.3, 95% confidence interval [95% CI] 1.5 to 3.6), administrative weight (0.1160; 95% CI 0.0738 to 0.1583), and number of diagnoses (0.9, 95% CI 0.5 to 1.3). On adjustment, co-management reduced LoS in OPH by 27.8%, 0.5 days (95% CI 0.1 to 1).   CONCLUSIONS Patients admitted to OPH have increasing comorbidity and complexity. Co-management is associated with a reduced LoS and costs in OPH, similar to that observed in other surgical services.
BACKGROUND The use of intravascular catheters (IVCs) in intensive care units (ICUs) has been well assessed in recent years. However, a high proportion of these devices are placed in patients outside the ICU, particularly in internal medicine departments (IMDs), where data on the quality of care are scarce.   AIM To assess the use and management of IVCs in IMDs in Spain.   METHODS We performed a point prevalence study of all adult inpatients on 47 IMDs from hospitals of different sizes on one day in June 2013. A local co-ordinator was appointed to assess patients and collect data from each site.   FINDINGS Out of the 2080 adult patients hospitalized on the study day, 1703 (81.9%) had one or more IVCs (95.4% of which were peripheral devices). Infection was detected at the insertion site in 92 catheters (5.0%); 87 patients (5.2%) had signs of sepsis, but only one case was considered to be catheter-related. The local co-ordinators estimated that 19% of the catheters in place were no longer necessary. A daily record of the need for a catheter was available in only 40.6% of cases.   CONCLUSION Our study shows clear opportunities for improvement regarding catheter use and care in Spanish IMDs. Strategies similar to those applied in ICUs should be implemented in IMDs.
Health care transitions are often dangerous for older patients. Interviews with older adults about their health care moves in Rhode Island (RI) were conducted to develop an Internal Medicine (IM) curriculum designed to provide IM interns with insights about the impact of transitions on patients. This paper describes some ways patients talk about their transitional experiences. Following pilot interviews, 10 nursing home residents were interviewed about their care transitions, conversations with physicians, and advice to doctors beginning their careers. The interviews were analyzed to identify themes. Patients described multiple moves, often did not know what to expect, appreciated help from a family member and desired effective communications with physicians. Learning about patient experiences may help new physicians appreciate the experiences of transitions on patients.
PROBLEM The scope and scale of developments in health care redesign have not been sufficiently adopted in primary care residency programs.   APPROACH The interdisciplinary Primary Care Faculty Development Initiative was created to teach faculty how to accelerate revisions in primary care residency training. The program focused on skill development in teamwork, change management, leadership, population management, clinical microsystems, and competency assessment. The 2013 pilot program involved 36 family medicine, internal medicine, and pediatric faculty members from 12 residencies in four locations.   OUTCOMES The percentage of participants rating intention to implement what was learned as 'very likely to' or 'absolutely will' was 16/32 (50%) for leadership, 24/33 (72.7%) for change management, 23/33 (69.7%) for systems thinking, 25/32 (75.8%) for population management, 28/33 (84.9%) for teamwork, 29/33 (87.8%) for competency assessment, and 30/31 (96.7%) for patient centeredness.Content analysis revealed five key themes: leadership skills are key drivers of change, but program faculty face big challenges in changing culture and engaging stakeholders; access to data from electronic health records for population management is a universal challenge; readiness to change varies among the three disciplines and among residencies within each discipline; focusing on patients and their needs galvanizes collaborative efforts across disciplines and within residencies; and collaboration among disciplines to develop and use shared measures of residency programs and learner outcomes can guide and inspire program changes and urgently needed educational research.   NEXT STEPS Revise and reevaluate this rapidly evolving program toward widespread engagement with family medicine, internal medicine, and pediatric residencies.
BACKGROUND Complete documentation of patient comorbidities in the medical record is important for clinical care, hospital reimbursement, and quality performance measures. We designed a pocket card reminder and brief educational intervention aimed at hospitalists with the goal of improving documentation of 6 common comorbidities present on admission: coagulation abnormalities, metastatic cancer, anemia, fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, malnutrition, and obesity.   METHODS Two internal medicine inpatient teams led by 10 hospitalist physicians at an academic medical center received the educational intervention and pocket card reminder (n = 520 admissions). Two internal medicine teams led by nonhospitalist physicians served as a control group (n = 590 admissions). Levels of documentation of 6 common comorbidities, expected length of stay, and expected mortality were measured at baseline and during the 9-month study period.   RESULTS The intervention was associated with increased documentation of anemia, fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, malnutrition, and obesity in the intervention group, both compared to baseline and compared to the control group during the study period. The expected length of stay increased in the intervention group during the study period.   CONCLUSIONS A simple educational intervention and pocket card reminder were associated with improved documentation and hospital quality measures at an academic medical center.
This article comments 9 original publications from year 2014 of interest for the primary care physician in the outpatient setting. The impact of diet such as nut consumption on health outcomes and mortality is developped, and the importance of dietary changes while taking statins is reminded. Red flags in low back pain and their predictive value are re-evaluated. An association between benzodiazepine use and Alzheimer dementia seems probable. New treatments for alcohol abuse, restless legs syndrome and type 2 diabetes are discussed. Finally, 棺-bloquers' effects on respiratory function in asthmatic patients are beeing reexamined.
The usual treatment of venous ulcers may be associated with statins intake. Antibiotics have only marginal utility in acute bronchitis. The prescription of paracetamol seems to have no benefit in the treatment of acute lower back pain. The absence of antithrombotic prophylaxis for distal fractures of the lower limbs seems to be safe for patients' health. The treatment of atraumatic lesions of the rotator cuff in patients >55 years should remain conservative. Arthroscopic surgery of non-traumatic tear of the medial meniscus seems to have no benefit. The family environment seems to be a protective factor to the mental health of adolescents. Screening for colorectal cancer in patients >75 years would save lives.
The year 2014 was rich in significant advances in all areas of internal medicine. Many of them have an impact on our daily practice and on the way we manage one problem or another. From the use of the ultrasound for the diagnosis of pneumonia to the choice of the site of venous access and the type of line, and the increasing complexity of choosing an oral anticoagulant agent, this selection offers to the readers a brief overview of the major advances. The chief residents in the Service of internal medicine of the Lausanne University hospital are pleased to share their readings.
Management of all pathologies, and in particular that of the most frequent ones, should whenever possible be based on robust evidence and arguments. New studies published this year enable rationalizing of screening in certain clinical situations, more adequate treatment of others, and open the way for novel and apparently very effective treatments. Whether it be the screening of carotid stenosis, the treatment of pericarditis, of heart failure, of chronic obstructive lung disease or spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, paradigm changes are conceivable. This selective review of the literature summarizes certain studies published this year.
A group of family physicians in an outpatient clinic in Switzerland prospectively followed scientific literature for ten years. What to remember among the numerous articles retrieved and which paper really changed our practice? If many readings are quickly forgotten, some of them marked our minds and changed our habits. This article is a summary of our efforts to keep the essential tools in clinical practice.
BACKGROUND Physician scores on examinations decline with time after graduation. However, whether this translates into declining quality of care is unknown. Our objective was to determine how physician experience is associated with negative outcomes for patients admitted to hospital.   METHODS We conducted a retrospective cohort study involving all patients admitted to general internal medicine wards over a 2-year period at all 7 teaching hospitals in Alberta, Canada. We used files from the Alberta College of Physicians and Surgeons to determine the number of years since medical school graduation for each patient's most responsible physician. Our primary outcome was the composite of in-hospital death, or readmission or death within 30 days postdischarge.   RESULTS We identified 10 046 patients who were cared for by 149 physicians. Patient characteristics were similar across physician experience strata, as were primary outcome rates (17.4% for patients whose care was managed by physicians in the highest quartile of experience, compared with 18.8% in those receiving care from the least experienced physicians; adjusted odds ratio [OR] 0.88, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.72-1.06). Outcomes were similar between experience quartiles when further stratified by physician volume, most responsible diagnosis or complexity of the patient's condition. Although we found substantial variability in length of stay between individual physicians, there were no significant differences between physician experience quartiles (mean adjusted for patient covariates and accounting for intraphysician clustering: 7.90 [95% CI 7.39-8.42] d for most experienced quartile; 7.63 [95% CI 7.13-8.14] d for least experienced quartile).   INTERPRETATION For patients admitted to general internal medicine teaching wards, we saw no negative association between physician experience and outcomes commonly used as proxies for quality of inpatient care.
BACKGROUND Malnutrition is a clinical state resulting in prolonged hospital stay, increase in severity of infections and poor wound healing.   AIMS Our aim was to investigate the prevalence and etiologic factors of malnutrition in medical inpatients.   STUDY DESIGN A total of 290 consecutively admitted internal medicine patients from February to May 2012 were included. On admission, demographic data, anthropometric measurements, laboratory parameters and nutritional screening test results were recorded.   METHODS Nutritional risk score-2002 for patients under 65 years old, mini nutritional assessment for older patients and subjective global assessment (SGA) tests performed. Relation of demographic characteristics, laboratory parameters, weight and body mass index (BMI) with nutritional status were evaluated.   RESULTS Mean age was 61짹17 years; 145 patients were male. Among 160 patients<65 years old, 34 were in malnutrition (21%), 41 (26%) were under risk of malnutrition and 85 (53%) were normal. When they were divided into three groups according to SGA, we found significant difference in hemoglobin, low density lipoprotein (LDL), high density lipoprotein, cholesterol, triglyceride, albumin and protein, weight and BMI. Among 130 patients over 65 years old, 47 patients (37%) were in malnutrition, 41 (31%) were under risk of malnutrition and 42 (32%) were normal. There was significant difference in LDL, cholesterol, albumin, protein, weight and BMI between three groups; each 1 g/dl decrease in serum albumin and age older than 65 years old increased malnutrition risk 5.21 and 1.97 times, respectively.   CONCLUSION Malnutrition risk is high among internal medicine inpatients and risk seems to be higher among older patients. Nutritional screening of geriatric patients, close follow-up and providing earlier health care would contribute rehabilitation of chronic diseases and decrease re-admissions.
We present here three interesting documents which allow us to have a quick look at some aspects of the professional life of Italian teachers of internal medicine at the end of XIX century. A typewritten copy of a letter sent, on 23 February 1877, by Augusto Murri, professor of internal medicine at the University of Bologna, to Francesco Crispi, Speaker of the Italian Parliament. This document was enclosed in a letter dated 6 March 1937 from Bartolo Nigrisoli, a distingued surgeon of Bologna, to Francesco Galdi, clinician of the University of Pisa. The third document is a handwritten reply from Galdi to Nigrisoli. Relevant information in all three documents are commented upon.
General medical problems and complications have a major impact on the quality of life in all stages of Parkinson's disease. To introduce an effective treatment, a comprehensive analysis of the various clinical symptoms must be undertaken. One must distinguish between (1) diseases which arise independently of Parkinson's disease, and (2) diseases which are a direct or indirect consequence of Parkinson's disease. Medical comorbidity may induce additional limitations to physical strength and coping strategies, and may thus restrict the efficacy of the physical therapy which is essential for treating hypokinetic-rigid symptoms. In selecting the appropriate medication for the treatment of any additional medical symptoms, which may arise, its limitations, contraindications and interactions with dopaminergic substances have to be taken into consideration. General medical symptoms and organ manifestations may also arise as a direct consequence of the autonomic dysfunction associated with Parkinson's disease. As the disease progresses, additional non-parkinsonian symptoms can be of concern. Furthermore, the side effects of Parkinson medications may necessitate the involvement of other medical specialists. In this review, we will discuss the various general medical aspects of Parkinson's disease.
Medication errors (MEs) are preventable and can result in patient harm and increased expenses in the healthcare system in terms of hospitalization, prolonged hospitalizations and even death. We aimed to develop a screening tool to detect acutely admitted patients at low or high risk of MEs comprised by items found by literature search and the use of theoretical weighting. Predictive variables used for the development of the risk score were found by the literature search. Three retrospective patient populations and one prospective pilot population were used for modelling. The final risk score was evaluated for precision by the use of sensitivity, specificity and area under the ROC (receiver operating characteristic) curves. The variables used in the final risk score were reduced renal function, the total number of drugs and the risk of individual drugs to cause harm and drug-drug interactions. We found a risk score in the prospective population with an area under the ROC curve of 0.76. The final risk score was found to be quite robust as it showed an area under the ROC curve of 0.87 in a recent patient population, 0.74 in a population of internal medicine and 0.66 in an orthopaedic population. We developed a simple and robust score, MERIS, with the ability to detect patients and divide them according to low and high risk of MEs in a general population admitted at acute admissions unit. The accuracy of the risk score was at least as good as other models reported using multiple regression analysis.
OBJECTIVES To ascertain current Acute Internal Medicine (AIM) trainees' opinions on their training programme, practical procedures, specialist skills and AIM as a specialty. This can then be used to feedback to the national training committee to help shape training priorities.   METHODS Online survey sent to all AIM Higher Specialty Trainees registered on the Society for Acute Medicine database, and advertised through e-mail communication and social media.   RESULTS The majority of trainees (55.5%) were quite happy or very happy with their training currently, although significant difficulties were highlighted with time off for specialist skill training and difficulty achieving certain procedural skills. The majority of trainees believe ultrasound should form a core component of AIM training (82.3%). A high proportion of trainees would recommend AIM as a specialty despite these difficulties.   CONCLUSIONS A number of issues were highlighted causing difficulties within AIM training, despite which the vast majority of trainees would recommend AIM as a career choice. The results were fed back to the training committee in March.
Medical problems account for almost 50% of all maternal deaths in South Africa. The most recent report of the National Committee on Confidential Enquiries into Maternal Deaths (NCCEMD) (2008 - 2010) stated that 40.5% of deaths were due to non-pregnancy-related infections, which are mostly HIV-related, and 8.8% were due to medical or surgical disorders. Obstetric physicians have a specific role in managing pregnant and postpartum women with medical problems and, in partnership with obstetricians, can contribute to reducing maternal morbidity and mortality. There are physiological changes in almost all systems in pregnancy. For example, changes in the cardiovascular, respiratory and haematological systems are particularly important when assessing the cause and management of medical problems in pregnant women. Such problems may be unique to pregnancy, exacerbated by pregnancy, or unrelated to pregnancy. They may be present prior to pregnancy, or present for the first time in pregnancy. Some medical problems are worsened by pregnancy. Pregnant women may improve or remain stable, or their disease may predictably or unpredictably deteriorate. This article discusses the role of obstetric physicians in managing medical problems in pregnant women. A case is described of a pregnant woman with common medical problems, resulting in a serious complication when treatment is interrupted.
CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVE Increased frequency of retractions has recently been observed, and retractions are important events that deserve scientific investigation. This study aimed to characterize cases of retraction within general and internal medicine in a high-profile database, with interest in the country of origin of the article and the impact factor (IF) of the journal in which the retraction was made.   DESIGN AND SETTING This study consisted of reviewing retraction notes in the Thomson-Reuters Web of Knowledge (WoK) indexing database, within general and internal medicine.   METHODS The retractions were classified as plagiarism/duplication, error, fraud and authorship problems and then aggregated into two categories: 'plagiarism/duplication' and 'others.' The countries of origin of the articles were dichotomized according to the median of the indicator 'citations per paper' (CPP), and the IF was dichotomized according to its median within general and internal medicine, also obtained from the WoK database. These variables were analyzed using contingency tables according to CPP (high versus low), IF (high versus low) and period (1992-2002 versus 2003-2014). The relative risk (RR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) were estimated for plagiarism/duplication.   RESULTS A total of 86 retraction notes were identified, and retraction reasons were found for 80 of them. The probability that plagiarism/duplication was the reason for retraction was more than three times higher for the low CPP group (RR: 3.4; 95% CI: [1.9-6.2]), and similar results were seen for the IF analysis.   CONCLUSION The study identified greater incidence of plagiarism/duplication among retractions from countries with lower scientific impact.
OBJECTIVE To determine, whether a restrictive transfusion strategy is followed in our hospital and to identify differences in activities within departments and patient groups.   METHOD Over a period of 15 months, RBC transfusions were prospectively recorded including the haemoglobin level prior to transfusion and were grouped in the different departments of our hospital (internal medicine ward, department of surgery, emergency room, intensive care unit, gynaecology ward, medical outpatient clinic and oncology outpatient clinic). Indications and co-morbidities were assessed retrospectively by reviewing the patient's charts.   RESULTS There were 1,832 RBC products transfused in total. The overall mean level of haemoglobin before transfusion was 7.61 g/dl (짹1.1). These haemoglobin levels differed significantly between the departments (p <0.001), with the lowest threshold in the internal medicine ward (7.30 g/dl 짹 1.0) compared to the surgery ward (7.73 g/dl 짹 1.0) and to the intensive care unit (7.82 g/dl 짹 0.9). In general, mean pre-transfusion haemoglobin levels did not differ significantly between patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) and patients without (7.64 g/dl 짹 1.0 vs 7.59 g/dl 짹 1.1, p = 0.48). In transfusions for patients with acute coronary syndrome a tendency to a higher transfusion threshold than in patients with stable CAD could be found (7.84 g/dl 짹 0.7 vs 7.58 g/dl 짹 1.0, p = 0.05). Patients with haematological disorders were transfused at a higher threshold when compared to patients without (7.77 g/dl vs 7.56 g/dl, p = 0.006).   CONCLUSION All wards in our analysis are following the current guidelines based on restrictive transfusion strategies. At the same time, we were able to detect significant differences between different departments and patient characteristics.
BACKGROUND MRCGP and MRCP(UK) are the main entry qualifications for UK doctors entering general [family] practice or hospital [internal] medicine. The performance of MRCP(UK) candidates who subsequently take MRCGP allows validation of each assessment. In the UK, underperformance of ethnic minority doctors taking MRCGP has had a high political profile, with a Judicial Review in the High Court in April 2014 for alleged racial discrimination. Although the legal challenge was dismissed, substantial performance differences between white and BME (Black and Minority Ethnic) doctors undoubtedly exist. Understanding ethnic differences can be helped by comparing the performance of doctors who take both MRCGP and MRCP(UK).   METHODS We identified 2,284 candidates who had taken one or more parts of both assessments, MRCP(UK) typically being taken 3.7 years before MRCGP. We analyzed performance on knowledge-based MCQs (MRCP(UK) Parts 1 and 2 and MRCGP Applied Knowledge Test (AKT)) and clinical examinations (MRCGP Clinical Skills Assessment (CSA) and MRCP(UK) Practical Assessment of Clinical Skills (PACES)).   RESULTS Correlations between MRCGP and MRCP(UK) were high, disattenuated correlations for MRCGP AKT with MRCP(UK) Parts 1 and 2 being 0.748 and 0.698, and for CSA and PACES being 0.636. BME candidates performed less well on all five assessments (P<.001). Correlations disaggregated by ethnicity were complex, MRCGP AKT showing similar correlations with Part1/Part2/PACES in White and BME candidates, but CSA showing stronger correlations with Part1/Part2/PACES in BME candidates than in White candidates. CSA changed its scoring method during the study; multiple regression showed the newer CSA was better predicted by PACES than the previous CSA.   CONCLUSIONS High correlations between MRCGP and MRCP(UK) support the validity of each, suggesting they assess knowledge cognate to both assessments. Detailed analyses by candidate ethnicity show that although White candidates out-perform BME candidates, the differences are largely mirrored across the two examinations. Whilst the reason for the differential performance is unclear, the similarity of the effects in independent knowledge and clinical examinations suggests the differences are unlikely to result from specific features of either assessment and most likely represent true differences in ability.
BACKGROUND Most academic hospitalists fulfil the role of clinician educator and have many opportunities for the bedside clinical teaching of resident physicians; however, hospitalists are promoted at lower rates than traditional internal medicine faculty staff. The conflict between the demands of clinical productivity and time to teach may be central to understanding the lower rates of academic promotion seen in hospitalists. This investigation explores the relationship between clinical productivity and learner evaluations of hospitalist clinician educators.   METHODS A retrospective review of clinical productivity and learner evaluations of hospitalists by residents was collected during the 2009-2012 academic years at Southern Illinois University School of Medicine. Correlation analysis between annual work relative value units (wRVUs), patient encounters and duty days with resident evaluations of faculty staff in the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education core competencies was performed.   RESULTS Forty-one annual data sets, representing 18 individual hospitalists, were analysed. No significant correlations between clinical productivity, in terms of annual work RVUs, patient encounters and duty days, and resident learner evaluation scores was found. This investigation explores the relationship between clinical productivity and learner evaluations of hospitalist clinician educators   DISCUSSION This study found no significant influence of measures of annual clinical service workload on resident learner evaluations of hospitalist clinical educators. These results are consistent with data reported for emergency medicine doctors and anaesthesiologists. These results may have significant implications for the staffing requirements for academic hospitalists.
PURPOSE Internal medicine (IM) residents commonly develop job burnout, which may lead to poor academic performance, depression, and medical errors. The extent to which duty hours restrictions (DHRs) can mitigate job burnout remains uncertain. The July 2011 DHRs created an opportunity to measure the impact of decreased work hours on developing burnout in IM residents.   METHOD A survey was administered twice to first-year IM residents at three academic medical centers between June 2011 and July 2012. To estimate the impact of the 2011 DHRs, data from this cohort, including demographics, sleepiness, hospital-based patient service characteristics, and burnout measures, were compared with data from 2008-2009 from first-year IM residents at the same institutions.   RESULTS Of eligible residents, 128/188 (68%) from the 2011-2012 cohort and 111/180 (62%) from the 2008-2009 cohort completed both surveys. Year-end burnout prevalence (92/123 [75%] versus 91/108 [84%], P = .08) and incidence (59/87 [68%] versus 55/68 [81%], P = .07) did not differ significantly between cohorts. There was no difference in year-end prevalence of excessive Epworth sleepiness (72/122 [59%] versus 71/108 [66%], P = .29) between cohorts; however, a greater percentage of residents who developed burnout in the 2011-2012 cohort reported caring for > 8 patients on their service (2011-2012 versus 2008-2009) (29/59 [49%] versus 5/34 [15%], P < .01).   CONCLUSIONS Job burnout and self-reported sleepiness in IM resident physicians were unchanged after the 2011 DHRs at three academic institutions. Further investigation into the determinants of burnout can inform effective interventions.
Both, underuse and overuse of thromboprophylaxis in hospitalised medical patients is common. We aimed to explore clinical factors associated with the use of pharmacological or mechanical thromboprophylaxis in acutely ill medical patients at high (Geneva Risk Score β3 points) vs low (Geneva Risk Score <3 points) risk of venous thromboembolism. Overall, 1,478 hospitalised medical patients from eight large Swiss hospitals were enrolled in the prospective Explicit ASsessment of Thromboembolic RIsk and Prophylaxis for Medical PATients in SwitzErland (ESTIMATE) cohort study. The study is registered on ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT01277536. Thromboprophylaxis increased stepwise with increasing Geneva Risk Score (p<0.001). Among the 962 high-risk patients, 366 (38%) received no thromboprophylaxis; cancer-associated thrombocytopenia (OR 4.78, 95% CI 2.75-8.31, p<0.001), active bleeding on admission (OR 2.88, 95% CI 1.69-4.92, p<0.001), and thrombocytopenia without cancer (OR 2.54, 95% CI 1.31-4.95, p=0.006) were independently associated with the absence of prophylaxis. The use of thromboprophylaxis declined with increasing severity of thrombocytopenia (p=0.001). Among the 516 low-risk patients, 245 (48%) received thromboprophylaxis; none of the investigated clinical factors predicted its use. In conclusion, in acutely ill medical patients, bleeding and thrombocytopenia were the most important factors for the absence of thromboprophylaxis among high-risk patients. The use of thromboprophylaxis among low-risk patients was inconsistent, without clearly identifiable predictors, and should be addressed in further research.
In this narrative review, we locate within the tradition of great diagnosticians in internal medicine, a fundamental development in patient-centered care: shared decision making (SDM). In this way, we present SDM as a core component of the clinical method, one in which diagnosis of the situation and of the actions that resolve it is essential toward the practice of evidence-based medicine.
Although gout is potentially curable, the management of this disease is often suboptimal. In this study, we investigated the treatment of gout in Turkey and also compared the management approaches to gout in different clinical specialties. Three hundred and nineteen consecutive patients (mean age 58.60됀기12.8혻years; 44 females, 275 males) were included in this multicenter study. A standardized form was generated to collect data about the patient's first admission to health care, the specialty of the doctor first diagnosed the gout, the treatment options for gout including attack management, patient referral, chronic treatment including medical treatment, and life style modifications. Forty patients were referred to another center without any treatment (12.8혻%), and referral rate is most common among the primary care physicians (28.8혻%). Colchicine was more commonly used for attack prophylaxis than allopurinol. Ninety-two patients had never been treated with allopurinol (28.8혻%). Allopurinol prescription was less common among the primary care physicians and orthopedists, and highest among the rheumatologists. Recommendation of diet and life style modifications was less common among the primary care physicians and orthopedists, and highest among the rheumatologists. The rates of life style modification recommendation and long-term allopurinol prescription were 83.7 and 77.6혻%, respectively, among the rheumatologists. Both acute and chronic management of gout is suboptimal in Turkey especially among the primary care physicians and orthopedists. Moreover, chronic treatment is even suboptimal among rheumatologists.
BACKGROUND Burnout is a significant problem facing internal medicine residents contributing to increased risk of depression and suicidal ideation. Coping mechanisms and burnout may differ based on sex.   METHODS The study was a retrospective cross-sectional study of reported burnout and coping mechanisms used by internal medicine residents in June 2014 at a large academic center and its community affiliate. Two hundred eighty-five postgraduate year (PGY)-1, 2, 3, and 4 and incoming PGY-1 residents were surveyed. The Maslach Burnout Inventory-General Survey and Brief Coping Orientation to Problems Experienced were given to measure levels of burnout and frequency of use of coping mechanisms. Percentages of residents who met criteria for burnout and high levels on each of the subscales of emotional exhaustion, cynicism and professional efficacy, were calculated and stratified by sex. Chi-squared tests were used for statistical significance. Average frequency of use of each coping mechanism by sex was calculated with statistical significance determined by two sided t-tests.   RESULTS There was a 69% completion rate (198/285) with 100 men and 98 women. Woman had higher levels of burnout (30% vs. 15%, p=0.014) and emotional exhaustion (22% vs. 9%, p=0.005). Women used the adaptive coping mechanisms of emotional support (p=0.001) and instrumental support (p=0.018) more frequently but also used the maladaptive coping mechanism of self-blame more frequently (p=0.022).   CONCLUSIONS Greater use of self-blame as a coping mechanism may be a major factor in the higher rates of burnout and emotional exhaustion in women resident physicians as compared to men. Educators must pay attention to use of self-blame by female residents and as it may be a red flag for resident distress.
BACKGROUND Internal medicine residents are expected to be able to provide gender-specific care. The objective of this study was to develop a consensus list of core topics and procedural skills in women's health to allow residency program directors to prioritize and standardize educational efforts in women's health.   METHODS We conducted a two-round Delphi of women's health experts. Participants were given a list of topics and asked to: (1) rank each topic based on how important they felt each topic was for internal medicine residents to be proficient in upon graduation, and (2) identify which topics were critical for a women's health curriculum. Mean importance ratings for all topics and mean agreement ratings for the critical topics were calculated. The list of critical topics mirrored the list of important topics; therefore, our consensus list included any topic that received a mean importance rating of 4.   RESULTS Of the 41 experts invited to participate, 46% (19) completed the first round with 100% (19/19) completing the second round. The majority (62.5%, n=35) of topics received an importance rating of 4. The highest-ranking topics included cervical cancer screening, screening for osteoporosis, and diagnosis of sexually transmitted infections (mean rating of 4.95/each). Other highly rated topics included those related to contraception/reproductive planning, breast disease, menopause, and performing the breast and pelvic examinations. The diagnosis of gender-specific conditions was generally rated as more important than the management of the conditions. In addition, pregnancy-related topics were overall deemed as less important for internal medicine training.   CONCLUSION Our study generated a consensus list of 35 core topics in women's heath that should serve as a guide to residency programs for the development of women's health curricula.
BACKGROUND Acute reduction in hemoglobin levels is frequently seen during sepsis. Previous studies have focused on the management of anemia in patients with septic shock admitted to intensive care units (ICU's), including aggressive blood transfusion aiming to enhance tissue oxygenation.   AIM To study the changes in hemoglobin concentrations during the first week of sepsis in the setting of Internal Medicine (IM) units, and their correlation to survival.   DESIGN Observational prospective study.   METHODS We recorded hemoglobin values upon admission and throughout the first week of hospital stay in a consecutive cohort of septic patients admitted to IM units at a community hospital, the patients were enrolled into a prospective registry. Data on blood transfusions was also collected, we examined the correlation between hemoglobin concentrations during the first week of sepsis and survival, the effect of blood transfusion was also assessed.   RESULTS Eight hundred and fifteen patients (815) with sepsis were enrolled between February 2008 to January 2009. More than 20혻% of them had hemoglobin levels less than 10g/dL on admission, a rate that was doubled during the first week of sepsis. Overall, 68 (8.3혻%) received blood transfusions, 14 of them (20.6혻%) due to bleeding. Typically, blood transfusion was given to older patients with a higher rate of malignancy and lower hemoglobin levels. While hemoglobin concentration on admission had strong correlation with in-hospital mortality (O.R-0.83 [95혻% C.I. 0.74-0.92], blood transfusion was not found to be an independent predicting factor for mortality.   CONCLUSION Anemia is very common in sepsis. While hemoglobin level on admission exhibit independent correlation with survival, blood transfusion do not.
BACKGROUND Anorexia nervosa (an) is associated with a number of life-threatening complications. Sometimes there are good reasons for admitting an anorexia nervosa patient to a general hospital for treatment as an inpatient. Therefore, there needs to be optimal collaboration between psychiatrists treating the patient and the medical staff at the general hospital.   AIM To obtain insight into the admission criteria and other possible factors that play a role in the physician's decision to admit a patient with anorexia nervosa for inpatient treatment in a general hospital.   METHOD Internists and residents-internal medicine completed a questionnaire about admission criteria and, where applicable, about threshold values for these criteria. The physicians were also asked to judge two case vignettes. In addition, they were questioned about other factors that influenced their views on the admission of patients with anorexia nervosa to a general hospital and about their attitude to this patient-group, their experience of treating patients with anorexia nervosa and their awareness of a need for a guideline. The data were collected at the annual Dutch congress for internists at Maastricht.   RESULTS In total 78 congress attendees responded to the questionnaire; 47% were internist and 53% were resident-in-training. Agreement was greatest with regard to the following admission criteria (top 5): 1. serum potassium (threshold value <2.5 mmol/l was the criterion selected most); 2. arrhythmia; 3. hypoglycemia; 4. heart rate (threshold value <40 bpm was chosen most); 5. prolonged qt interval on an ECG. According to the two fictitious cases, the reason for admitting a patient with anorexia nervosa with milder symptoms was influenced by 'attitude'. Half of the respondents pointed out that the patient's cooperation plays a role in the decision to admit a patient with an eating disorder.   CONCLUSION Respondents reached a consensus regarding several admission criteria but the threshold values they gave varied substantially. Attitude towards the patient-group can sometimes influence the decision to admit a patient with anorexia nervosa to a general hospital. Internists and residents-in-training indicated they require detailed, carefully compiled guidelines which take into consideration the expected results and which emphasise the importance of obtaining the patient's cooperation.
BACKGROUND Low-value services, such as prescribing brand-name medications that have existing generic equivalents, contribute to unnecessary health care spending.   OBJECTIVE To evaluate the association of an intervention by using the electronic health record with provider prescription of generic-equivalent medications.   DESIGN Quasi-experimental study.   SETTING General internal medicine (IM) (n혻= 2) and family medicine (FM) (n혻= 2) clinics at the University of Pennsylvania from June 2011 to September 2012.   PARTICIPANTS Attending physicians (IM, n혻= 38; FM, n혻= 17) and residents (IM, n혻= 166; FM, n혻= 34).   INTERVENTION In January 2012, the default in the electronic health record was changed for IM providers from displaying brand and generic medications to displaying initially only generics, with the ability to opt out.   MEASUREMENTS Monthly prescriptions of brand-name and generic-equivalent 棺-blockers, statins, and proton-pump inhibitors.   RESULTS During the preintervention period, FM providers had slightly higher rates of generic medication prescribing (range, 80.8% to 85.5%) than did IM providers (range, 75.4% to 79.6%), but both groups had similar trends. In the postintervention period relative to the preintervention period, IM providers had an increase in generic prescribing compared with FM providers for all 3 medications combined (5.4 percentage points [95% CI, 2.2 to 8.7 percentage points]; P혻< 0.001), 棺-blockers (10.5 percentage points [CI, 5.8 to 15.2 percentage points]; P혻< 0.001), and statins (4.0 percentage points [CI, 0.4 to 7.6 percentage points]; P혻= 0.002). Results for proton-pump inhibitors (2.1 percentage points [CI, -3.7 to 8.0 percentage points]; P혻= 0.47) were not significant. Subset analyses revealed similar findings for attending physicians. Among residents, however, results were imprecise, with wide CIs.   LIMITATION Observational single-center evaluation, comparison groups that represented different specialties, and a small subset of medication classes studied.   CONCLUSION The use of default options was an effective method to increase the odds of prescribing generic medication equivalents for 棺-blockers and statins.   PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
BACKGROUND Antibiotic use is an important quality improvement target. Nearly 50% of antibiotic use is unnecessary or inappropriate. To combat overuse, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) proposed 'time-outs' to reevaluate antibiotics.   OBJECTIVE To optimize antibiotic use through trainee-led time-outs.   DESIGN Before-after study.   SETTING Internal medicine (2 units, 46 beds) at a university hospital.   PATIENTS Inpatients (n = 679).   INTERVENTION From January 2012 until June 2013, while receiving monthly education on antimicrobial stewardship, resident physicians adjusted patients' antibiotic therapy through twice-weekly time-out audits using a structured electronic checklist.   MEASUREMENTS Antibiotic costs were standardized and compared in the year before and after the audits. Use was measured as World Health Organization defined daily doses (DDDs) per 1000 patient-days. Total antibiotic use and the use of moxifloxacin, carbapenems, antipseudomonal penicillins, and vancomycin were compared by using interrupted time series. Rates of nosocomial Clostridium difficile infection were compared by using incidence rate ratios.   RESULTS Total costs in the units decreased from $149,743CAD (January 2011 to January 2012) to $80,319 (January 2012 to January 2013), for a savings of $69,424 (46% reduction). Of the savings, $54,150 (78%) was related to carbapenems and $15,274 (22%) was due to other antibiotic classes. Adherence with the auditing process was 80%. In the time-series analyses, the only reliable and statistically significant change was a reduction in the rate of moxifloxicin use, by -1.9 DDDs per 1000 patient-days per month (95% CI, -3.8 to -0.02; P = 0.048). Rates of C. difficile infection decreased from 24.2 to 19.6 per 10,000 patient-days (incidence rate ratio, 0.8 [CI, 0.5 to 1.3]).   LIMITATION Other temporal factors may confound the findings.   CONCLUSIONS An antibiotic self-stewardship bundle to implement the CDC's suggested time-outs seems to have reduced overall costs and targeted antibiotic use.   PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE None.
PURPOSE The Alliance for Academic Internal Medicine charged its Education Redesign Committee with the task of assisting internal medicine residency program directors in meeting the challenges of competency-based assessment that were part of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education's (ACGME's) Next Accreditation System.   METHOD Recognizing the limitations of the ACGME general competencies as an organizing framework for assessment and the inability of the milestones to provide the needed context for faculty to assess residents' competence, the Education Redesign Committee in 2011 adopted the work-based assessment framework of entrustable professional activities (EPAs). The committee selected the EPA framework after reviewing the literature on competency-based education and EPAs and consulting with experts in evaluation and assessment. The committee used an iterative approach with broad-based feedback from multiple sources, including program directors, training institutions, medical organizations, and specialty societies, to develop a set of EPAs that together define the core of the internal medicine profession.   RESULTS The resulting 16 EPAs are those activities expected of a resident who is ready to enter unsupervised practice, and they provide a starting point from which training programs could develop assessments and curricula. The committee also provided a strategy for the use of these EPAs in competency-based evaluation.   CONCLUSIONS These EPAs are intended to serve as a starting point or guide for program directors to begin developing meaningful, work-based assessments that inform the evaluation of residents' competence.
OBJECTIVES Reporting of clinically significant events represents an important mechanism by which patient safety problems may be identified and corrected. However, time pressure and cumbersome report entry procedures have discouraged the full participation of physicians. To improve the process, our internal medicine training program developed an easy-to-use mobile platform that combines the reporting process with patient sign-out.   METHODS Between August 25, 2011, and January 25, 2012, our trainees entered clinically significant events into i-touch/i-phone/i-pad based devices functioning in wireless-synchrony with our desktop application. Events were collected into daily reports that were sent from the handoff system to program leaders and attending physicians to plan for rounds and to correct safety problems.   RESULTS Using the mobile module, residents entered 31 reportable events per month versus the 12 events per month that were reported via desktop during a previous 6-month study period.   CONCLUSIONS Advances in information technology now permit clinically significant events that take place during 'off hours' to be identified and reported (via handoff) to next providers and to supervisors via collated reports. This information permits hospital leaders to correct safety issues quickly and effectively, while attending physicians are able to use information gleaned from the reports to optimize rounding plans and to provide additional oversight of trainee on call patient management decisions.
BACKGROUND The Infectious Diseases Society of America In-Training Examination (IDSA ITE) is a feedback tool used to help fellows track their knowledge acquisition during fellowship training. We determined whether the scores on the IDSA ITE and from other major medical knowledge assessments predict performance on the American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) Infectious Disease Certification Examination.   METHODS The sample was 1021 second-year fellows who took the IDSA ITE and ABIM Infectious Disease Certification Examination from 2008 to 2012. Multiple regression analysis was used to determine if ABIM Infectious Disease Certification Examination scores were predicted by IDSA ITE scores, prior United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) scores, ABIM Internal Medicine Certification Examination scores, fellowship director ratings of medical knowledge, and demographic variables. Logistic regression was used to evaluate if these same assessments predicted a passing outcome on the certification examination.   RESULTS IDSA ITE scores were the strongest predictor of ABIM Infectious Disease Certification Examination scores (棺 = .319), followed by prior ABIM Internal Medicine Certification Examination scores (棺 = .258), USMLE Step 1 scores (棺 = .202), USMLE Step 3 scores (棺 = .130), and fellowship directors' medical knowledge ratings (棺 = .063). IDSA ITE scores were also a significant predictor of passing the Infectious Disease Certification Examination (odds ratio, 1.017 [95% confidence interval, 1.013-1.021]).   CONCLUSIONS The significant relationship between the IDSA ITE score and performance on the ABIM Infectious Disease Certification Examination supports the use of the ITE as a valid feedback tool in fellowship training.
OBJECTIVES The extant literature on borderline personality disorder (BPD) and compliance with mental health treatment contains conflicting findings. However, among those individuals with this type of personality dysfunction, reduced compliance with mental health treatment appears to be the predominant theme. To our knowledge, the relationship between BPD and compliance with general health care has not been studied. In addition, there is no prior study in this area examining a primary care population.   METHODS Using a cross-sectional survey methodology among a sample of internal medicine outpatients (N = 261), we assessed borderline personality symptoms with two self-report measures and general health care compliance or adherence with four self-report measures.   RESULTS With the exception of on-time arrival for doctor appointments, the remaining compliance variables demonstrated statistically significant relationships at the p < 0.01-0.001 levels, with borderline personality symptoms predicting reduced compliance (i.e., conscientiousness with medical treatment, regular dental check-ups, timely completion of laboratory work, following doctor's exercise and nutrition instructions, remembering to take medications, and Medical Outcomes Study General Adherence Score).   CONCLUSIONS Compared with participants without borderline personality symptoms, those participants with such symptoms in this study evidenced lower general health care compliance.
BACKGROUND AND STUDY AIM International studies have shown differences in the outcome of screening colonoscopies related to the endoscopist's specialty and setting of colonoscopy. The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of these two factors on quality parameters for screening colonoscopy in a quality-assured screening program.   METHODS Adenoma detection rate (ADR), cecal intubation rate (CIR), polypectomy rate, flat polyp detection rate, carcinoma detection rate, sedation rate, complication rates, and other parameters of 59901 screening colonoscopies performed by 178 endoscopists were analyzed in relation to specialty (35 gastroenterologists: 10066 colonoscopies [16.8%]; 84 nongastroenterologists: 26271 colonoscopies [43.9%]; 59 surgeons: 23564 [39.3%]), and setting (hospital: 12580 [21.6%] colonoscopies; office: 45781 [78.4%] colonoscopies).   RESULTS The overall ADR was 20.5% and the CIR was 95.6%. The ADR did not show any statistical significance, either in relation to specialty or to setting. A significant difference in the CIR was found between hospital-based and office-based internists (98.5% vs. 96.8%, respectively; P =0.0005; odds ratio [OR] 2.2, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.4-3.4). Hospital-based internists had a significantly higher flat polyp detection rate (7.5% vs. 4.1%; P =0.02; OR 1.9, 95%CI 1.1-3.2) and a significantly lower carcinoma detection rate (0.4% vs. 0.6%; P =0.03; OR 0.7, 95%CI 0.5-1.0) compared with office-based internists. Complication rates were significantly lower among surgeons than among internists (0.1% vs. 0.2%; P =0.03; OR 0.5, 95%CI 0.3-1.0).   CONCLUSION Endoscopists participating in the Austrian quality assurance program offered high quality screening colonoscopy regardless of their specialty and setting. The implementation of a standardized quality program is therefore a decisive factor in quality improvement of screening colonoscopy.
The authors studied trends and patterns in the literature of research labeled as clinical (i.e., having the word 'clinical' in their title) in the period between 1991 and 2010. The main findings are: 1. The growth of the literature under study was somewhat stronger than that of the overall medical literature. 2. The dominance of the USA is strong but is challenged by some of the most rapidly developing countries (particularly in the Far-East region: China, Korea) in total production, and by the developed European countries in highly cited publications. The eminence of Italy is remarkable. 3. In comparing the medical fields, the most striking tendencies are the increase of oncology and the attenuation of internal medicine. Surgery is steadily growing in size but decreasing in its citation influence. 4. Word frequency studies support the ever growing weight of oncology and also of genetics. 5. Beyond the thematic changes, word frequency studies also reveal a substantial change in attitude: in the period under study more and more effort was made on emphasizing the usefulness, efficiency and risks of the results in contrast with the more descriptive, investigative approach of the past. The role of therapy is growing, the role of diagnostics is decreasing. The knowledge of these trends and patterns may orient health and science policy makers to cope appropriately with the ever changing world of clinical research.
PURPOSE As graduate medical education (GME) moves into the Next Accreditation System (NAS), programs must take a critical look at their current models of evaluation and assess how well they align with reporting outcomes. Our objective was to assess the impact on house staff evaluation scores when transitioning from a Dreyfus-based model of evaluation to a Milestone-based model of evaluation. Milestones are a key component of the NAS.   METHOD We analyzed all end of rotation evaluations of house staff completed by faculty for academic years 2010-2011 (pre-Dreyfus model) and 2011-2012 (post-Milestone model) in one large university-based internal medicine residency training program. Main measures included change in PGY-level average score; slope, range, and separation of average scores across all six Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) competencies.   RESULTS Transitioning from a Dreyfus-based model to a Milestone-based model resulted in a larger separation in the scores between our three post-graduate year classes, a steeper progression of scores in the PGY-1 class, a wider use of the 5-point scale on our global end of rotation evaluation form, and a downward shift in the PGY-1 scores and an upward shift in the PGY-3 scores.   CONCLUSIONS For faculty trained in both models of assessment, the Milestone-based model had greater discriminatory ability as evidenced by the larger separation in the scores for all the classes, in particular the PGY-1 class.
BACKGROUND Patient outcomes with hospitalist care have been studied in many settings, yet little is known about how hospitalist care interacts with trainee care to affect patient outcomes in teaching hospitals.   OBJECTIVES The aim of this study was to compare patient outcomes between hospitalist-preceptors and hospitalists working alone (isolating the effect of housestaff involvement), and between hospitalist-preceptors and academician-preceptors (isolating the effect of attending type, given housestaff involvement).   DESIGN A four-year retrospective cohort study of patients (n=13,313) admitted to all internal medicine services at an academic medical center from July 2008 to June 2012.   MAIN MEASURES Using generalized estimating equations, we measured readmission within 30 days, hospital length of stay, cost of the index hospitalization, and cumulative cost including readmissions within 30 days.   KEY RESULTS In the adjusted models, 30-day readmission odds were higher for academic-preceptors (OR, 1.14 [95% CI, 1.03-1.26]) and hospitalist-preceptors (OR, 1.10 [95% CI, 1.002-1.21]) than for hospitalists working alone. Compared with hospitalists working alone, academic-preceptors were associated with shorter length of stay (mean difference, 0.27 days [95% CI, 0.18-0.38]), lower index hospitalization costs (mean difference, $386 [95% CI, $192-$576]), but similar cumulative inpatient costs within 30 days of discharge. Compared with hospitalists working alone, hospitalist-preceptors were associated with shorter length of stay (mean difference, 0.34 days [95% CI, 0.26-0.42]), lower index hospitalization cost (mean difference, $570 [95% CI, $378-$760]), and a trend toward lower cumulative cost (mean difference, $1347 [95% CI, $254-$2,816]).   CONCLUSIONS Preceptor-led medicine services were associated with more readmissions within 30 days, shorter lengths of stay, and lower index admission-associated costs. However, when considering cumulative hospitalization costs, patients discharged by academician-preceptors incurred the highest cost and hospitalist-preceptors incurred the lowest cost.
BACKGROUND Breast cancer is an issue of serious concern among women of all ages. The extent to which providers across primary care specialties assess breast cancer risk and discuss chemoprevention is unknown.   METHODS Cross-sectional web-based survey completed by 316 physicians in internal medicine (IM), family medicine (FM), and gynecology (GYN) from February to April of 2012. Survey items assessed respondents' frequency of use of the Gail model and chemoprevention, and their attitudes behind practice patterns. Descriptive statistics were used to generate response distributions, and chi-squared tests were used to compare responses among specialties.   RESULTS The response rate was 55.0 % (316/575). Only 40% of providers report having used the Gail model (37% IM, 33% FM, 60% GYN) and 13% report having recommended or prescribed chemoprevention (9% IM, 8% FM, 30% GYN). Among providers who use the Gail model, a minority use it regularly in patients who may be at increased breast cancer risk. Among providers who have prescribed chemoprevention, most have done so five times or fewer. Lack of both time and familiarity were commonly cited barriers to use of the Gail score and chemoprevention.   CONCLUSIONS An overall minority of providers, most notably in FM and IM, use the Gail model to assess, and chemoprevention to decrease, breast cancer risk. Until providers are more consistent in their use of the Gail model (or other breast cancer risk calculator) and chemoprevention, opportunities to intervene in women at increased risk will likely continue to be missed.
OBJECTIVES To describe disease characteristics and treatment modalities in a multidisciplinary cohort of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients in Switzerland.   METHODS Cross-sectional analysis of 255 patients included in the Swiss SLE Cohort and coming from centres specialised in Clinical Immunology, Internal Medicine, Nephrology and Rheumatology. Clinical data were collected with a standardised form. Disease activity was assessed using the Safety of Estrogens in Lupus Erythematosus National Assessment-SLE Disease Activity Index (SELENA-SLEDAI), an integer physician's global assessment score (PGA) ranging from 0 (inactive) to 3 (very active disease) and the erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR). The relationship between SLE treatment and activity was assessed by propensity score methods using a mixed-effect logistic regression with a random effect on the contributing centre.   RESULTS Of the 255 patients, 82% were women and 82% were of European ancestry. The mean age at enrolment was 44.8 years and the median SLE duration was 5.2 years. Patients from Rheumatology had a significantly later disease onset. Renal disease was reported in 44% of patients. PGA showed active disease in 49% of patients, median SLEDAI was 4 and median ESR was 14 millimetre/first hour. Prescription rates of anti-malarial drugs ranged from 3% by nephrologists to 76% by rheumatologists. Patients regularly using anti-malarial drugs had significantly lower SELENA-SLEDAI scores and ESR values.   CONCLUSION In our cohort, patients in Rheumatology had a significantly later SLE onset than those in Nephrology. Anti-malarial drugs were mostly prescribed by rheumatologists and internists and less frequently by nephrologists, and appeared to be associated with less active SLE.
BACKGROUND Interprofessional collaboration improves the quality of care, but integration into workflow is challenging. Although a shared conceptualization regarding bedside interprofessional rounds may enhance implementation, little work has investigated providers' perceptions of this activity.   OBJECTIVE To evaluate the perceptions of nurses, attending physicians, and housestaff physicians regarding the benefits/barriers to bedside interprofessional rounds.   DESIGN AND PARTICIPANTS Observational, cross-sectional survey of hospital-based medicine nurses, attending physicians, and housestaff physicians. Descriptive, nonparametric Wilcoxon rank sum and nonparametric correlation were used.   MAIN MEASURES Bedside interprofessional rounds were defined as 'encounters including 2 physicians plus a nurse or other care provider discussing the case at the patient's bedside.' Eighteen items related to 'benefits' and 21 items related to 'barriers' associated with bedside interprofessional rounds.   RESULTS Of 171 surveys sent, 149 were completed (87%). Highest-ranked benefits were related to communication/coordination, including 'improves communication between nurses-physicians;' lowest-ranked benefits were related to efficiency, process, and outcomes, including 'decreases length-of-stay' and 'improves timeliness of consultations.' Nurses reported most favorable ratings for all items (P<0.05). Rank order for 3 provider groups showed high correlation (r=0.92, P<0.001). Highest-ranked barriers were related to time, including 'nursing staff have limited time;' lowest-ranked barriers were related to provider- and patient-related factors, including 'patient lack of comfort.' Rank order of barriers among all groups showed moderate correlation (r=0.62-0.82).   CONCLUSIONS Although nurses perceived greater benefit for bedside interprofessional rounds than physicians, all providers perceived coordination/teamwork benefits higher than outcomes. To the extent the results are generalizable, these findings lay the foundation for facilitating meaningful patient-centered interprofessional collaboration.
In 2004 the principal legislative changes were accepted in the field of postgraduate medical education in Czech Republic (law No. 95/2004 Code). Replacement of two-stage system of specialized education by its one- stage option has brought some problems and according to our opinion did not lead to clear improvement of postgraduate education, more likely the other way around. Our effort to improve the quality of process of postgraduate specialization in internal medicine brought us to creation of own local system of postgraduate education using the next 4 basic principles: principle of robust internal base as a platform for the following specialization, principle of repeating to fix the knowledge, principle of knowledge control and last but not least principle of active participation in educational system.
INTRODUCTION Due to the ageing population, internal medicine has become increasingly important for dental education. Although several studies have reported dentists' dissatisfaction with their internal medicine training, no guidelines exist for internal medicine learning objectives in dental education. The aim of this study was to identify topics of internal medicine considered to be relevant for dental education by dentists and internists.   METHODS Eight dentists from private dental practices in Hamburg and eight experienced internal medicine consultants from Hamburg University Hospital were recruited for semi-structured interviews about internal medicine topics relevant for dentists. Internal diseases were clustered into representative subspecialties. Dentists and internists were also asked to rate medical diseases or emergencies compiled from the literature by their relevance to dental education.   RESULTS Coagulopathy and endocarditis were rated highest by dentists, whilst anaphylaxis was rated highest by internists. Dentists rated hepatitis, HIV, organ transplantation and head/neck neoplasm significantly higher than internists. The largest number of different internal diseases mentioned by dentists or internists could be clustered under cardiovascular diseases. The number of specific diseases dentists considered to be relevant for dental education was higher in the subspecialties cardiovascular diseases, haematology/oncology and infectiology.   CONCLUSION We identified the internal medicine topics most relevant for dental education by surveying practising dentists and internists. The relevance of these topics should be confirmed by larger quantitative studies to develop guidelines how to design specific learning objectives for internal medicine in the dental curriculum.
Acute pancreatitis is most frequently of biliary or alcoholic origin and less frequently due to iatrogenic (ERCP, medication) or metabolic causes. Diagnosis is usually based on abdominal pain and elevation of serum lipase to more than three-times the normal limit. Acute pancreatitis can either resolve quickly following an oedematous swelling or present as a severe necrotizing form. A major risk is the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), which can cause multi-organ failure. Prediction of disease course is initially difficult, thus necessitating immediate therapy and regular re-evaluation. In order to prove or exclude biliary genesis, abdominal ultrasonography should first be performed and endoscopic ultrasound may also be required. Primary therapy includes rapid and correctly dosed fluid substitution. Biliary pancreatitis requires causal treatment. In the case of cholangitis, stone extraction must be performed immediately; in the absence of cholangitis, it might be advisable to wait for spontaneous stone clearance. Timely cholecystectomy is necessary in all cases of biliary pancreatitis.
PURPOSE How physicians within the specialty of internal medicine perceive their stress-related working conditions, especially due to a changing health system with an impact on workflows and working hours, is examined in this study.   METHODS A total of 1696 online questionnaires completed by internists were analyzed. The questionnaire was based upon the Effort-Reward Imbalance (ERI) model by Siegrist et혻al. and the Job-Demand-Control model (JDC) by Karasek et혻al.   RESULTS Working conditions in the specialty of internal medicine seem to have a high risk of leading to distress. As a result 62.1% [95%혻confidence interval (CI): 59.8-64.5] of the respondents described working conditions with unfavorable stress (distress). Analyzing the distress prevalence in subgroups, there were significant differences between gender (65.9% of female physicians and 58.6% of male physicians; p=0.002; odds ratio (OR): 1.37; 95%혻CI: 1.12-1.66), age (69.3% of under 35-year-old to 56.6% of 35- to 59-year-old), and functional position (38.3% of chief physician to 69.1% of junior physicians; OR: 7.17; 95%혻CI: 3.91-13.16). Regarding job satisfaction 48.1% of respondents said, they were very satisfied with their job.   CONCLUSION This study should be a cause for concern, since current data suggest a future shortage of qualified employers in the specialty of internal medicine. Taking this into account, working conditions in hospitals should be improved in order to bind current employees and attract new employees.
IMPORTANCE Growing concern about rising costs and potential harms of medical care has stimulated interest in assessing physicians' ability to minimize the provision of unnecessary care.   OBJECTIVE To assess whether graduates of residency programs characterized by low-intensity practice patterns are more capable of managing patients' care conservatively, when appropriate, and whether graduates of these programs are less capable of providing appropriately aggressive care.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Cross-sectional comparison of 6639 first-time takers of the 2007 American Board of Internal Medicine certifying examination, aggregated by residency program (n=357).   EXPOSURES Intensity of practice, measured using the End-of-Life Visit Index, which is the mean number of physician visits within the last 6 months of life among Medicare beneficiaries 65 years and older in the residency program's hospital referral region.   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES The mean score by program on the Appropriately Conservative Management (ACM) (and Appropriately Aggressive Management [AAM]) subscales, comprising all American Board of Internal Medicine certifying examination questions for which the correct response represented the least (or most, respectively) aggressive management strategy. Mean scores on the remainder of the examination were used to stratify programs into 4 knowledge tiers. Data were analyzed by linear regression of ACM (or AAM) scores on the End-of-Life Visit Index, stratified by knowledge tier.   RESULTS Within each knowledge tier, the lower the intensity of health care practice in the hospital referral region, the better residency program graduates scored on the ACM subscale (P<.001 for the linear trend in each tier). In knowledge tier 4 (poorest), for example, graduates of programs in the lowest-intensity regions had a mean ACM score in the 38th percentile compared with the 22nd percentile for programs in the highest-intensity regions; in tier 2, ACM scores ranged from the 75th to the 48th percentile in regions from lowest to highest intensity. Graduates of programs in low-intensity regions tended, more weakly, to score better on the AAM subscale (in 3 of 4 knowledge tiers).   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Regardless of overall medical knowledge, internists trained at programs in hospital referral regions with lower-intensity medical practice are more likely to recognize when conservative management is appropriate. These internists remain capable of choosing an aggressive approach when indicated.
UNLABELLED Abstract Background: Medical schools all over the world try to adapt their programs to meet international standards. However, local culture might hamper innovation attempts.   AIMS To describe challenges in implementing the mini-CEX in Indonesia and investigate its effect on students' clinical competence.   METHODS The study was conducted in the Internal Medicine and Neurology departments of the Universitas Gadjah Mada, Indonesia. Implementing the mini-CEX into the existing curriculum, while taking the Indonesian culture into account, implied a shift from group to individual feedback. We compared students' final clinical competence before (Internal Medicine n=122, Neurology n=183) and after (n=183 and 186, respectively) the implementation of the mini-CEX, using a modified Objective Structured Long Examination Record (OSLER). The Mann-Whitney test was used to analyze the data.   RESULTS We took power distance and individualism into account to facilitate the implementation process. After implementing the mini-CEX, the OSLER results were significant higher in Internal Medicine (p<0.05). However, no differences were found in Neurology.   CONCLUSION By managing the innovation process carefully and taking culture and local context into account, the mini-CEX can be implemented without changing the underlying concept. The shift from group to individual feedback seems to have a positive effect on student learning.
Clinical utility exists in certain situations for introducing a urinary catheter, but its use is the major cause of in-hospitaL acquired urinary tract infections. Furthermore, there are other complications of urinary catheterization, including urethral injury, macroscopic hematuria, and the inability to remove the catheter once introduced. Also, the in-hospital use of an indwelling urinary catheter in the elderly patient is associated with prolonged hospitalizations and an increased risk of in-hospital mortality. Although there are clinical criteria for the use of an indwelling urinary catheter, there is considerable variability in the utilization rates between hospitals and departments. For example, the rates of catheterization in general internal medicine departments usually varies between 8% to 20% and increases with the age of the patients. However, it has been shown that up to 50% of catheterizations are unjustified. Therefore, there are efforts to decrease the rate of use of urinary catheters on the one hand, and to limit the number of days with the indwelling catheter in place on the other hand. These efforts have been partially successful. The root of the problem is that the criteria for catheterization are generally vague, leading to variable interpretations. More precise definitions along with continuous monitoring will likely decrease catheterization rates without putting the patient at risk.
Evidence exists that clinical outcomes improve for stroke patients admitted to specialized Stroke Units. The Toronto Western Hospital created a Neurovascular Unit (NVU) using beds from general internal medicine, Neurology and Neurosurgery to care for patients with stroke and acute neurovascular conditions. Using patient-level data for NVU-eligible patients, a discrete event simulation was created to study changes in patient flow and length of stay pre- and post-NVU implementation. Varying patient volumes and resources were tested to determine the ideal number of beds under various conditions. In the first year of operation, the NVU admitted 507 patients, over 66% of NVU-eligible patient volumes. With the introduction of the NVU, length of stay decreased by around 8%. Scenario testing showed that the current level of 20 beds is sufficient for accommodating the current demand and would continue to be sufficient with an increase in demand of up to 20%.
Over the past 140혻years, the close academic and clinical interactions in Internal Medicine between German-speaking countries and the United States have been through three distinct stages. From 1870 until the First World War, German medical research, teaching, and university organization served as a혻model for U.S. medical schools and practice. However, after World War혻I, medical education reforms were implemented in the U.S., and due also to radical economic and political changes at home, German medicine lost its pioneering role. Furthermore, many scientists and clinicians were forced to emigrate in the face of racial and political persecution in Germany and Austria. Since the Second World War, American medicine has grown further to become the world leader in research, training, and clinical practice. The earlier trend of American physicians studying abroad was thus reversed, with many of today's foremost German physicians completing clinical and research training in the United States.
BACKGROUND Objective structured clinical examinations (OSCEs) have been used to assess the clinical competence and interpersonal skills of healthcare professional students for decades. However, the relationship between preclinical (second year or M2) OSCE grades and clerkship performance had never been evaluated, until it was explored to provide information to educators at the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). In addition, the relationship between M2 OSCE communication scores (which is a portion of the total score) and third-year (M3) Internal Medicine (IM) clerkship OSCE scores was also explored. Lastly, conflicting evidence exists about the relationship between the amount of previous clinical experience and OSCE performance. Therefore, the relationship between M3 IM clerkship OSCE scores and the timing of the clerkship in the academic year was explored.   METHODS Data from UNMC M2 OSCEs and M3 IM clerkship OSCEs were obtained for graduates of the 2013 and 2014 classes. Specifically, the following data points were collected: M2 fall OSCE total, M2 fall OSCE communication; M2 spring OSCE total, M2 spring OSCE communication; and M3 IM clerkship OSCE total percentages. Data were organized by class, M3 IM clerkship OSCE performance, and timing of the clerkship. Microsoft Excel and SPSS were used for data organization and analysis.   RESULTS Of the 245 records, 229 (93.5%) had data points for all metrics of interest. Significant differences between the classes of 2013 and 2014 existed for average M2 spring total, M2 spring communication, and M3 IM clerkship OSCEs. Retrospectively, there were no differences in M2 OSCE performances based on how students scored on the M3 IM clerkship OSCE. M3 IM clerkship OSCE performance improved for those students who completed the clerkship last in the academic year.   CONCLUSIONS There were inconsistencies in OSCE performances between the classes of 2013 and 2014, but more information is needed to determine if this is because of testing variability or heterogeneity from class to class. Although there were no differences in preclinical scores based on M3 IM clerkship OSCE scores, students would benefit from a longitudinal review of their OSCE performance over their medical training. Additionally, students may benefit from more reliable and valid forms of assessing communication. In general, students who take the IM clerkship last in the academic year performed better on the required OSCE. More information is needed to determine why this is seen only at the end of the year.
BACKGROUND Attending evaluations are commonly used to evaluate residents.   OBJECTIVES Evaluate the quality of written feedback of internal medicine residents.   DESIGN Retrospective.   PARTICIPANTS Internal medicine residents and faculty at the Medical College of Wisconsin from 2004 to 2012.   MAIN MEASURES From monthly evaluations of residents by attendings, a randomly selected sample of 500 written comments by attendings were qualitatively coded and rated as high-, moderate-, or low-quality feedback by two independent coders with good inter-rater reliability (kappa: 0.94). Small group exercises with residents and attendings also coded the utterances as high, moderate, or low quality and developed criteria for this categorization. In-service examination scores were correlated with written feedback.   KEY RESULTS There were 228 internal medicine residents who had 6,603 evaluations by 334 attendings. Among 500 randomly selected written comments, there were 2,056 unique utterances: 29% were coded as nonspecific statements, 20% were comments about resident personality, 16% about patient care, 14% interpersonal communication, 7% medical knowledge, 6% professionalism, and 4% each on practice-based learning and systems-based practice. Based on criteria developed by group exercises, the majority of written comments were rated as moderate quality (65%); 22% were rated as high quality and 13% as low quality. Attendings who provided high-quality feedback rated residents significantly lower in all six of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) competencies (p <0.0005 for all), and had a greater range of scores. Negative comments on medical knowledge were associated with lower in-service examination scores.   CONCLUSIONS Most attending written evaluation was of moderate or low quality. Attendings who provided high-quality feedback appeared to be more discriminating, providing significantly lower ratings of residents in all six ACGME core competencies, and across a greater range. Attendings' negative written comments on medical knowledge correlated with lower in-service training scores.
OBJECTIVES Narrative comments are used routinely in many forms of rater-based assessment. Interpretation can be difficult as a result of idiosyncratic writing styles and disconnects between literal and intended meanings. Our purpose was to explore how faculty attendings interpret and make sense of the narrative comments on residents' in-training evaluation reports (ITERs) and to determine the language cues that appear to be influential in generating and justifying their interpretations.   METHODS A group of 24 internal medicine (IM) faculty attendings each categorised a subgroup of postgraduate year 1 (PGY1) and PGY2 IM residents based solely on ITER comments. They were then interviewed to determine how they had made their judgements. Constant comparative techniques from constructivist grounded theory were used to analyse the interviews and develop a framework to help in understanding how ITER language was interpreted.   RESULTS The overarching theme of 'reading between the lines' explained how participants read and interpreted ITER comments. Scanning for 'flags' was part of this strategy. Participants also described specific factors that shaped their judgements, including: consistency of comments; competency domain; specificity; quantity, and context (evaluator identity, rotation type and timing). There were several perceived purposes of ITER comments, including feedback to the resident, summative assessment and other more socially complex objectives.   CONCLUSIONS Participants made inferences based on what they thought evaluators intended by their comments and seemed to share an understanding of a 'hidden code'. Participants' ability to 'read between the lines' explains how comments can be effectively used to categorise and rank-order residents. However, it also suggests a mechanism whereby variable interpretations can arise. Our findings suggest that current assumptions about the purpose, value and effectiveness of ITER comments may be incomplete. Linguistic pragmatics and politeness theories may shed light on why such an implicit code might evolve and be maintained in clinical evaluation.
OBJECTIVES To construct and internally validate a risk score, the '80+ score', for revisits to hospital and mortality for older patients, incorporating aspects of pharmacotherapy. Our secondary aim was to compare the discriminatory ability of the score with that of three validated tools for measuring inappropriate prescribing: Screening Tool of Older Person's Prescriptions (STOPP), Screening Tool to Alert doctors to Right Treatment (START) and Medication Appropriateness Index (MAI).   SETTING Two acute internal medicine wards at Uppsala University hospital. Patient data were used from a randomised controlled trial investigating the effects of a comprehensive clinical pharmacist intervention.   PARTICIPANTS Data from 368 patients, aged 80뀂ears and older, admitted to one of the study wards.   PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURE Time to rehospitalisation or death during the year after discharge from hospital. Candidate variables were selected among a large number of clinical and drug-specific variables. After a selection process, a score for risk estimation was constructed. The 80+ score was internally validated, and the discriminatory ability of the score and of STOPP, START and MAI was assessed using C-statistics.   RESULTS Seven variables were selected. Impaired renal function, pulmonary disease, malignant disease, living in a nursing home, being prescribed an opioid or being prescribed a drug for peptic ulcer or gastroesophageal reflux disease were associated with an increased risk, while being prescribed an antidepressant drug (tricyclic antidepressants not included) was linked to a lower risk of the outcome. These variables made up the components of the 80+ score. The C-statistics were 0.71 (80+), 0.57 (STOPP), 0.54 (START) and 0.63 (MAI).   CONCLUSIONS We developed and internally validated a score for prediction of risk of rehospitalisation and mortality in hospitalised older people. The score discriminated risk better than available tools for inappropriate prescribing. Pending external validation, this score can aid in clinical identification of high-risk patients and targeting of interventions.
This review considers the views of I.V. Davydovsky expounded in his book The Problems of Causality in Medicine. Etiology (1962). The author was the first to apply the philosophical method to address such fundamental medical concepts as etiology and pathogensis. The most important issues concerning diseases of internal organs are reviewed with special reference to their etiology; an attempt is undertaken to further develop and update them.
INTRODUCTION During previous deployments of the British Armed Forces, a significant proportion of aeromedical evacuations were accounted for with recurrent symptoms from a known disease that had often triggered occupational medical downgrading. Many servicemen and women had deployed inappropriately, and by doing so became a burden on the deployed medical facilities. Commanders performing systematic medical risk assessments prior to departure might have prevented these individuals from deploying. This study was designed to assess the avoidable burden from recurrent disease during the current Afghanistan operation.   METHODS A cross-sectional study reviewing the hospital and computerised primary care medical records of consecutive patients admitted under the General Physicians to the Role 3 Hospital in Camp Bastion over 9꿲onths from April 2011. The occupational medical grading, diagnosis, disposal and whether the disease was recurrent were recorded.   RESULTS Of 270 patients admitted, 14 (5.2%) were medically downgraded. The computerised records were unavailable for 31 (11.5%) patients. All those patients who were medically downgraded were graded 'Medically Limited Deployable'. In the downgraded group, only one patient presented with recurrent symptoms from their pre-existing condition (Crohn's disease). In the non-downgraded group, two patients presented with symptoms relating to their previous diagnoses. One presented with a second heat illness and should have been medically downgraded and not have been deployed, while the other patient had previously been investigated for recurrent syncope and was upgraded 6꿲onths prior to deploying. All three patients underwent aeromedical evacuation but only two of these were considered to have been avoidable.   DISCUSSION The number of general medical admissions to the Role 3 Hospital due to a pre-existing disease is very low.
BACKGROUND The American Board of Internal Medicine has defined through the min-CEX (Clinical Examination booklet) that a resident would need to perform anywhere from 3 to 5 procedures to be competent in a given procedure. Many faculty and residents believe that this number is too low to achieve competency.   METHODS Although simulation has been required as part of medical training, we have reviewed a number of articles addressing competence and potentially fewer complications with improved patient safety.   RESULTS The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education has simply stated that simulation should be part of residency training. However, this has resulted in a disorganized approach among the nearly 385 internal medicine programs in the United States.   CONCLUSIONS This article suggests a model of simulation that addresses procedures, medical codes and major medical problems that each resident achieve competence in before graduating residency. This would require minimally a doubling of the number of procedures to define competency and will do so in a far more scientific method.
Law enforcement officials have asked health care providers to evaluate patient applications for concealed weapon permits. The current study was designed to examine physician beliefs regarding competency to carry a concealed weapon for patients with specific physical and mental conditions. Among 222 North Carolina physicians who participated in this survey (40% response rate), large variation and uncertainty existed for determining competency. Physicians most frequently chose mild dementia, post-traumatic stress disorder, and recent depression as conditions that would render a patient not competent to carry a concealed weapon. Male physicians and those owning a gun were more likely to deem a patient competent. Almost a third of physicians were unsure about competence for most conditions. Physicians asked to assess competency of patients to carry a concealed weapon have quite disparate views on competency and little confidence in their decisions. If physicians are expected to assess patient competence to carry a concealed weapon, more objective criteria and training are needed.
OBJECTIVES To identify the current practice patterns and professional activities of internal medicine-pediatrics (med-peds) hospitalists who have graduated in the past 5 years (June 2009-June 2013).   METHODS The national Medicine-Pediatrics Program Directors Association (MPPDA) conducted a cross-sectional survey study of the 79 residency program directors who are members of the MPPDA regarding the practice patterns of recent graduates (from 2009-2013) currently practicing as hospitalists. The survey was distributed in the spring of 2014 on the MPPDA listserv. The survey inquired about time spent caring for hospitalized adults and children, medical school appointments, practice in freestanding children's hospitals, and completion of hospital medicine (HM) fellowships.   RESULTS Forty-nine program directors (62%) completed the survey and provided data on 1042 graduates from 46 programs. Of those graduates, 26.4% (n=275) practice as hospitalists, and none had completed an HM fellowship. Approximately two-thirds (65%) of med-peds hospitalists provide care to hospitalized children and adults, with one-third providing care solely to hospitalized adults. Approximately one-half (53.5%) have an appointment with a medical school and roughly one-quarter (28%) practice in a freestanding children's hospital.   CONCLUSIONS An increasing percentage of recent med-peds graduates are pursuing careers in HM, and two-thirds are providing care to hospitalized children. As consideration for an accredited pediatric HM fellowship continues, certifying and accrediting bodies should consider how this will impact the med-peds workforce and allow med-peds graduates flexibility in their training requirements that will permit them to acquire the necessary skills to care for hospitalized children and adults.
INTRODUCTION Concomitant somatic and mental illness is associated with excess mortality compared with the general population. To prevent this, a number of health initiatives relating to somatic illness in psychiatric patients have recently been introduced. One of the means used to screen for and treat somatic disease in psychiatric patients is highly qualified referral for somatic specialist assessment. The aim of this study was to assess the quality of referral of psychiatric patients to specialists in internal medicine.   METHODS A total of 110 consecutive referrals were collected from August to November in 2012 and 2013. Regional guidelines define the requirement for the satisfactory referral scheme and using these guidelines as a reference, each referral was rated based on indexation and an overall assessment. A report about the 2012 results was presented to the hospital management. The management of the hospital was not informed about the 2013 replication of the study.   RESULTS Half of the topics assessed were inadequately completed. Information about somatic co-morbidity was missing in 76% of the referrals. Description of relevant tests and physical examinations was missing in 53%. By overall assessment, 40% of the referrals were rated as being insufficient. The resident physicians stand out by producing the most informative referrals. The 2013 results improved compared with 2012.   CONCLUSION We call for improvement in the quality of the referrals among psychiatric in-patients to somatic specialists. We propose an expansion of the use of standardised schemes and a strengthening of the skills needed to write a good referral.
The number of international travels has been continuously increasing since World War II. Though the travelers' demand for safer ways of travelling appeared, only a handful of them sought pretravel advices. This is the reason why 50% of the travelers have to face some kind of medical problem during their journey. If they have travel insurance, the company's assistance team organizes, monitors and covers their abroad treatment. A doctor of the assistance team has to find her/his ways in various fields: not only a multidisciplinary medical knowledge is a must for a professional like this, but she/he needs to have a good grasp of the basic idea behind the insurance policy, too. Also, she/he should be familiar with the public health care systems of different countries and some legal knowledge is also needed. If the patients are unable to continue their trip, they must be repatriated. Making a decision about the repatriation's timing and modality requires interdisciplinary medical experience and the approach of a critical care/emergency doctor. Among further tasks for the assistance team's doctor one can find medical escort and on-spot medical visit for foreign patients. Both of these two aforementioned medical activities are highly different from - for example - a general practitioner's routine. That is the reason why an assistance doctor has to be familiar with the critical and emergency care. Organizing and monitoring medical treatment for a traveler abroad, providing medical escort, making decisions about repatriation and providing medical help for a foreign patient all fall within the competence of a new medical discipline, the assistance medicine. Creating a body of knowledge, collecting appropriate protocols and establishing postgraduate courses for assistance medicine diplomas are the tasks of the critical care and emergency medicine professionals.
AIM Cryoglobulinemia is characterized by multiple organ involvement, mainly including the skin, liver, kidneys, and peripheral nerves. Our aim was to investigate the demographic, clinical, and serologic features, as well as survival in a group of 16 Tunisian patients with cryoglobulinemia.   RESULTS The study included 12 women and 4 men, and their mean age was 41 years. In all but two, the cryoglobulinemia was associated with another disease. These included lupus for 9, Sj철gren syndrome for 2, and polyarteritis nodosa for one. They also included infectious diseases: 3 patients with hepatitis B virus infection, one with hepatitis C virus infection, one with parvovirus B19, and another with lymph node tuberculosis. Only one case of lymphoproliferative disease was noted. General symptoms were present in 81% of the patients, cutaneous vasculitis in 43%, peripheral vascular-Raynaud phenomenon in 37%, joint polyarthralgia or arthritis in 62%, renal involvement in 68%, neuropathy in 25%, lung involvement in 56%, gastrointestinal involvement in 37%, and finally cardiac involvement in 31%. In some cases it was difficult to determine if the clinical signs were attributable to cryoglobulinemia or the underlying pathology. The course was favorable under treatment for 5 patients, while 7 patients became sicker and 5 finally died.   CONCLUSION Cryoglobulinemia is underdiagnosed. Treatment depends on the severity of the lesions and the underlying disease.
BACKGROUND Detailed knowledge of the likely volume and nature of the diseases presenting to deployed secondary care facilities aids operational planning. Now the British operation in Afghanistan has ended and a record of the experience is useful to preserve the lessons learned.   METHODS Over a 2-year period from April 2011, prospective demographic and clinical data were collected on consecutive general internal medicine admissions to the Role 3 Hospital in Camp Bastion, Afghanistan. Up to four different symptoms and diagnoses were coded using the WHO International Classification of Disease, V.10 for each patient.   RESULTS A total of 1368 medical patients were admitted. Of 1131 military admissions, 612 were from the UK (54.1%) and the remainder from 13 allied countries; 237 civilians came from 23 countries. Civilians were older than the military patients (p<0.001) but included five children. The 20 most frequent presenting symptoms were identified and there were 1626 diagnoses made. The 10 most frequent diagnoses were infectious gastroenteritis (12.6%), heat illness (4.3%), pneumonia (3.6%), epilepsy (2.6%), cellulitis (2.7%), migraine (1.8%), peptic ulcer disease (1.2%), myocardial infarction (1.2%), venous thromboembolism (1.2%) and pericarditis (0.7%). In 252 cases (18.4%) a firm diagnosis was not reached and a symptom was recorded. The five most frequent of these were undifferentiated febrile illnesses (4.6%), syncope (3.7%), chest pain (2.8%), headache (0.8%) and palpitations (0.7%). The mean hospital length of stay was 1.59꿥ays and 72.2% of UK military patients were 'returned to unit'. Three civilian patients died in hospital or following aeromedical evacuation and there were no deaths of any military patients.   DISCUSSION This study demonstrates the wide variety of presentations seen by physicians at an established military field hospital. This information informs the core syllabus of military physician training and will help facilitate planning for future medical support to similar military operations.   TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER RCDM/Res/Audit/1036/12/0305.
Professor Franti큄ek P처r, MD, (1899-1980) graduated at the German Medical Faculty of Charles University (GMF-CHU) in Prague in 1926. In January 26, 1945 he was captured, together with his wife, by the Gestapo and they were deported to the concentration camp to Sered' and later to Terez챠n (Czechoslovakia) from where they were liberated by the Soviet Army on May 8, 1945. He was a founder and the head of the Internal Clinic of the new Medical Faculty in Ko큄ice, from October 1, 1948 until 1971. Professor P처r, MD created a school of internal medicine specialists in Eastern Slovakia and many of his co-workers achieved considerable success in internal medicine in Slovakia. He was the founder of Eastern Slovakian Medical Meetings in Nov첵 Smokovec, in the High Tatras, in 1961, the 50th Meeting was held in 2011. Since 1994 the Medical Society in Ko큄ice has organized an annual Meeting in his memory.
PURPOSE In June 2009, the national French authority for Health reported many off-label uses of proton pump inhibitors (PPI). Our objective was to analyse the justification and modalities of PPI prescriptions in patients before their admission in a department of internal medicine.   METHODS Data were prospectively collected during 5months. At admission, all prescriptions of PPI by general practitioners (GP) were recorded. The accordance of the prescriptions with the marketing authorization indications and the French guidelines in terms of duration of treatment or dosage was analyzed. These informations were obtained from computerized medical records and, if necessary, by contacting GPs.   RESULTS We collected 173혻prescriptions. Fifty-six (32%) were in accordance with marketing authorization indications and, among them, 15혻prescriptions (9% of all) respected the French guidelines about dosage and duration of treatment. One hundred and six prescriptions (61%) were not adequate and among them an off-label use was notified in 91 (53% of all); among them 33% for simple dyspeptic disorders, 23% for the prevention of NSAID-induced lesions in patients without risk factors, and finally 17% for the prevention of stress ulcer. Fifty-two prescriptions (30%) were unclassified due to incomplete data.   CONCLUSION Our study showed that a vast majority of the prescriptions for PPIs are not in accordance with French guidelines. Preventive actions against abusive prescriptions, withdrawal strategies or replacement of already prescribed PPIs should be implemented to reduce the risk of side effects and the economic impact of long term use of PPIs.
OBJECTIVES To identify socio-demographic and health-related factors associated with (a) acupuncture use and (b) the rated helpfulness of acupuncture among internal medicine patients.   METHODS Data from a larger cross-sectional trial were reanalyzed. Patients who had used acupuncture for managing their primary medical complaint were compared to patients who had not. Predictors for (a) acupuncture use and (b) rated helpfulness were determined using logistic regression analyses.   RESULTS Of 2486 included patients, 51.49% reported acupuncture use and 39.22% reported no prior use. The use of acupuncture was associated with higher age, i.e. those aged 50-64 were more likely to have used acupuncture, while those younger than 30 were less likely. Patients with spinal pain, fibromyalgia, or headache were more likely to be acupuncture users; while IBS patients were less likely. Patients with good to excellent health status, high external-social health locus of control and current smokers were less likely to have used acupuncture. Among those who had used acupuncture, 42.34% perceived the treatment as helpful, while 35.94% did not. Rated helpfulness was associated with female gender, full-time employment, high health satisfaction, and high internal health locus of control. Those with a diagnosis of osteoarthritis or inflammatory bowel disease were more likely to find acupuncture helpful; those with headache or other types of chronic pain were less likely to find acupuncture helpful.   CONCLUSION Acupuncture was used by more than half of internal medicine patients. Prevalence and rated helpfulness of acupuncture use was associated with the patients' medical condition, sociodemography, and health locus of control.
The practice of outpatient general internal medicine requires a diverse and evolving knowledge base. General internists must identify practice-changing shifts in the literature and reflect on their impact. Accordingly, we conducted a review of practice-changing articles published in outpatient general internal medicine in 2014. To identify high-quality, clinically relevant publications, we reviewed all titles and abstracts published in the following primary data sources in 2014: New England Journal of Medicine, Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA), Annals of Internal Medicine, JAMA Internal Medicine, and the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. All 2014 primary data summaries from Journal Watch-General Internal Medicine and ACP JournalWise also were reviewed. The authors used a modified Delphi method to reach consensus on inclusion of 8 articles using the following criteria: clinical relevance to outpatient internal medicine, potential for practice change, and strength of evidence. Clusters of important articles around one clinical question were considered as a single-candidate series. The article merits were debated until consensus was reached on the final 8, spanning a variety of topics commonly encountered in outpatient general internal medicine.
Onychomycosis is a common progressive infection of the nails that may result in remarkable morbidity. Although there are a variety of treatments available for fungal nail infections with different efficacy and safety profiles, there are limited reports on the ways in which physicians use these treatments or the frequency with which they prescribe them. In this retrospective study, major trends in the prescription and use of antifungal agents for treatment of onychomycosis in the United States were evaluated using data from the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey. Results showed that current treatment and trends in use of drugs for onychomycosis in the United States are in accordance with recommendations in current guidelines.
BACKGROUND Medical trainees often do not receive structured teaching during in-patient rounds.   OBJECTIVE To assess whether the addition of a collaborative team learning technique would improve the learning experience on a general medicine in-patient team.   METHODS Eight learners participated in this pilot study. Learning teams consisted of internal medicine residents and third-year medical students on a general medicine in-patient rotation. The experimental curriculum covered four common topics: cardiac stress testing; syncope; pneumonia; and valvular heart disease. Sessions had the following format: (1) each learner answered five self-assessment questions using an immediate feedback technique; (2) learners were divided into groups of two or three to discuss their answers; (3) the teaching doctor led a discussion to clarify and summarise, and also distributed a handout delineating key learning points. Control sessions consisted of the usual teaching rounds. Learners were e-mailed a daily online survey asking them to rate the rounds and handouts on a Likert scale. Medical trainees often do not receive structured teaching during in-patient rounds   RESULTS All of the learners rated the collaborative team learning intervention as either 'excellent' or 'very good'. Learners also indicated that they found the take-away handout valuable, and positive responses were also noted in the survey comments.   DISCUSSION A novel collaborative team learning technique resulted in high ratings of teaching rounds by medical residents and medical students. Learners found the sessions engaging, high yield, and educationally valuable. This interactive discussion-based teaching method could be used to enhance the learning experience during teaching rounds on medical, surgical and subspecialty services.
PURPOSE The demand for hematologists and oncologists is not being met. We hypothesized that an inpatient hematology-oncology ward rotation would increase residents' interest. Potential reasons mitigating interest were explored and included differences in physician distress, empathy, resilience, and patient death experiences.   METHODS Agreement with the statement 'I am interested in pursuing a career/fellowship in hematology and oncology' was rated by residents before and after a hematology-oncology rotation, with 0 = not true at all, 1 = rarely true, 2 = sometimes true, 3 = often true, and 4 = true nearly all the time. House staff rotating on a hematology-oncology service from November 2013 to October 2014 also received questionnaires before and after their rotations containing the Connors-Davidson Resilience Scale, the Impact of Events Scale-Revised, the Interpersonal Reactivity Index, demographic information, and number of dying patients cared for and if a sense of meaning was derived from that experience.   RESULTS Fifty-six residents completed both before- and after-rotation questionnaires (response rate, 58%). The mean interest score was 1.43 initially and decreased to 1.24 after the rotation (P = .301). Female residents' mean score was 1.13 initially and dropped to 0.81 after the rotation (P = .04). Male residents' mean score was 1.71 initially and 1.81 after the rotation (P = .65). Decreased hematology-oncology interest correlated with decreased empathy; male interest decrease correlated with decreased resilience.   CONCLUSION An inpatient hematology-oncology ward rotation does not lead to increased interest and, for some residents, may lead to decreased interest in the field. Encouraging outpatient hematology-oncology rotations and the cultivation of resilience, empathy, and meaning regarding death experiences may increase resident interest.
BACKGROUND Nurses mental health is still a major and unachieved goal in many public hospital settings. Hospital work organization analysis shows differences in health professions, hospital units, age and gender.   OBJECTIVES To analyse work organisation and its effects on nurses mental health in three high risks hospital units (Oncoematology, First Aid, General Medicine) in order to improve good practices for nurses health.   METHODS The Method of Organizational Congruences (72 hours of observation) has been used to detect organizational constraints and their possible effects on nurses' mental health. General Health Questionnaire (Goldberg D., 12 items) and the Check up Surveys for burnout (Leiter MP and Maslach C.) have been used to evaluate the mental health status of the 80 nurses employed (78% women).   RESULTS High emotional work load in oncoematology Unit, high monotony and repetitiveness with lower emotional load in first Aid Unit, High mental and physical workload in General Medicine Unit. Burnout was significantly higher in General Medicine Unit, followed by First Aid Unit and oncoematology Unit. Female nurses reported more chronic diseases than males. The GHQ showed high frequency of minor psychiatric disorders (58%) in all units, higher in General Medicine Unit (78%).   CONCLUSION The overall results show how organizational constraints and mental health conditions differ per hospital units, age groups and gender. Good nursing practices, to prevent mental health problems, should therefore be developed specifically in each hospital unit according to these results.
OBJECTIVES Multimorbidity (2 chronic conditions) affects more than half of all older adults. The American Geriatrics Society developed and published guiding principles for the care of older adults with multimorbidity in 2012. Improved clinician training in caring for older adults with multimorbidity is needed, but it is not clear what opportunities arise within clinical encounters to apply the guiding principles or how clinicians at all stages of training currently practice in this area. This project aimed to characterize current practice and opportunities for improvement in an internal medicine residency clinic regarding the care of older adults with multimorbidity.   DESIGN Qualitative content analysis of audio-recorded clinic visits.   SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS Thirty clinic visits between 21 internal medicine residents and 30 of their primary care patients aged 65 and older with two or more chronic conditions were audio-recorded. Patients' mean age was 73.6, and they had on average 3.7 chronic conditions and took 12.6 medications.   MEASUREMENTS Transcripts of the audio-recorded visit discussions were analyzed using standard techniques of qualitative content analysis to describe the content and frequency of discussions in the clinic visits related to the five guiding principles: patient preferences, interpreting the evidence, prognosis, clinical feasibility, and optimizing therapies.   RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS All visits except one included discussions that were thematically related to at least one guiding principle, suggesting regular opportunities to apply the guiding principles in primary care encounters with internal medicine residents. Discussions related to some guiding principles occurred much more frequently than others. Patients presented a number of opportunities to incorporate the guiding principles that the residents missed, suggesting target areas for future educational interventions.
BACKGROUND Medication reconciliation is a powerful process to correct medication errors (ME) resulting from miscommunicated information at transitions of care. This study aims to develop and evaluate a scoring method for assessing the severity of potential harm of ME intercepted by medication reconciliation at hospital admission in elderly.   METHODS The development of the scoring method was based on a literature search and the creation of a list of high-risk drugs used in outpatient care. The evaluation of the method was carried out in 7 French hospitals and was based on two criteria: the inter-rater reliability and acceptability. The assessment of the inter-rater reliability was based on intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC) calculations. Each hospital prospectively enrolled the 10 first patients aged 65 or older presenting with at least one ME. Seven blocks of 10 patients were formed. After randomization, each block was rated by practitioners from 3 hospitals. The assessment of the acceptability was based on a satisfaction questionnaire.   RESULTS A clinical algorithm was developed. The inter-rater reliability of the method was validated by the overall agreement of the 7 hospitals ratings. The agreement was at least substantial (ICC>0.60) and in most of cases almost perfect (ICC>0.80). The acceptability of the method was judged as satisfactory.   CONCLUSION This multi-centre project has validated an instrument for assessing the severity of potential harm of ME intercepted by medication reconciliation. This will allow studies to be conducted with large cohorts of patients in order to develop epidemiological databases of ME of potential clinical significance.
BACKGROUND In 2014, the American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) substantially increased the requirements and fees for its maintenance-of-certification (MOC) program. Faced with mounting criticism, the ABIM suspended certain content requirements in February 2015 but retained the increased fees and number of modules. An objective appraisal of the cost of MOC would help inform upcoming consultations about MOC reform.   OBJECTIVE To estimate the total cost of the 2015 version of the MOC program ('2015 MOC') and the incremental cost relative to the 2013 version ('2013 MOC').   DESIGN Decision analytic model.   DATA SOURCES Published literature.   TARGET POPULATION All ABIM-certified U.S. physicians.   TIME HORIZON 10 years (2015 to 2024).   PERSPECTIVE Societal.   INTERVENTION 2015 MOC.   OUTCOME MEASURES Testing costs (ABIM fees) and time costs (monetary value of physician time).   RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS Internists will incur an average of $23혻607 (95% CI, $5380 to $66혻383) in MOC costs over 10 years, ranging from $16혻725 for general internists to $40혻495 for hematologists-oncologists. Time costs account for 90% of MOC costs. Cumulatively, 2015 MOC will cost $5.7 billion over 10 years, $1.2 billion more than 2013 MOC. This includes $5.1 billion in time costs (resulting from 32.7 million physician-hours spent on MOC) and $561 million in testing costs.   RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Costs are sensitive to time spent on MOC and MOC credits obtainable from current continuing education activities.   LIMITATION Precise estimates of time required for MOC are not available.   CONCLUSION The ABIM MOC program will generate considerable costs, predominantly due to demands on physician time. A rigorous evaluation of its effect on clinical and economic outcomes is warranted to balance potential gains in health care quality and efficiency against the high costs identified in this study.   PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE University of California, San Francisco, and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.
BACKGROUND Shift change handoffs are known to be a point of vulnerability in the quality, safety and outcomes of healthcare. Despite numerous efforts to improve handoff reliability, few interventions have produced lasting change. Although the opportunity to ask questions during patient handoff has been required by some regulatory bodies, the function of questions during handoff has been less well explored and understood.   OBJECTIVE To investigate questions and the functions they serve in nursing and medicine handoffs.   RESEARCH DESIGN Qualitative thematic analysis based on audio recordings of nurse-to-nurse, medical resident-to-resident and surgical intern-to-intern handoffs.   SUBJECTS Twenty-seven nurse handoff dyads and 18 medical resident and surgical intern handoff dyads at one VA Medical Center.   RESULTS Our analysis revealed that the vast majority of questions were asked by the Incoming Providers. Although topics varied widely, the bulk of Incoming Provider questions requested information that would best help them understand individual patient conditions and plan accordingly. Other question types sought consensus on clinical reasoning or framing and alignment between the two professionals.   CONCLUSIONS Handoffs are a type of socially constructed work. Questions emerge with some frequency in virtually all handoffs but not in a linear or predictable way. Instead, they arise in the moment, as necessary, and without preplanning. A checklist cannot model this process element because it is a static memory aid and questions occur in a relational context that is emergent. Studying the different functions of questions during end of shift handoffs provides insights into the interface between the technical context in which information is transferred and the social context in which meaning is created.
BACKGROUND Many internal medicine (IM) programs have reorganized their resident continuity clinics to improve trainees' ambulatory experience. Downstream effects on continuity of care and other clinical and educational metrics are unclear.   METHODS This multi-institutional, cross-sectional study included 713 IM residents from 12 programs. Continuity was measured using the usual provider of care method (UPC) and the continuity for physician method (PHY). Three clinic models (traditional, block, and combination) were compared using analysis of covariance. Multivariable linear regression analysis was used to analyze the effect of practice metrics and clinic model on continuity.   RESULTS UPC, reflecting continuity from the patient perspective, was significantly different, and was highest in the block model, midrange in combination model, and lowest in the traditional model programs. PHY, reflecting continuity from the perspective of the resident provider, was significantly lower in the block model than in combination and traditional programs. Panel size, ambulatory workload, utilization, number of clinics attended in the study period, and clinic model together accounted for 62% of the variation found in UPC and 26% of the variation found in PHY.   CONCLUSIONS Clinic model appeared to have a significant effect on continuity measured from both the patient and resident perspectives. Continuity requires balance between provider availability and demand for services. Optimizing this balance to maximize resident education, and the health of the population served, will require consideration of relevant local factors and priorities in addition to the clinic model.
BACKGROUND A core objective of residency education is to facilitate learning, and programs need more curricula and assessment tools with demonstrated validity evidence.   OBJECTIVE We sought to demonstrate concurrent validity between performance on a widely shared, ambulatory curriculum (the Johns Hopkins Internal Medicine Curriculum), the Internal Medicine In-Training Examination (IM-ITE), and the American Board of Internal Medicine Certifying Examination (ABIM-CE).   METHODS A cohort study of 443 postgraduate year (PGY)-3 residents at 22 academic and community hospital internal medicine residency programs using the curriculum through the Johns Hopkins Internet Learning Center (ILC). Total and percentile rank scores on ILC didactic modules were compared with total and percentile rank scores on the IM-ITE and total scores on the ABIM-CE.   RESULTS The average score on didactic modules was 80.1%; the percentile rank was 53.8. The average IM-ITE score was 64.1% with a percentile rank of 54.8. The average score on the ABIM-CE was 464. Scores on the didactic modules, IM-ITE, and ABIM-CE correlated with each other (P<.05). Residents completing greater numbers of didactic modules, regardless of scores, had higher IM-ITE total and percentile rank scores (P<.05). Resident performance on modules covering back pain, hypertension, preoperative evaluation, and upper respiratory tract infection was associated with IM-ITE percentile rank.   CONCLUSIONS Performance on a widely shared ambulatory curriculum is associated with performance on the IM-ITE and the ABIM-CE.
BACKGROUND Many countries have reduced resident duty hours in an effort to promote patient safety and enhance resident quality of life. There are concerns that reducing duty hours may impact residents' learning opportunities.   OBJECTIVES We (1) evaluated residents' perceptions of their current learning opportunities in a context of reduced duty hours, and (2) explored the perceived change in resident learning opportunities after call length was reduced from 24 continuous hours to 16혻hours.   METHODS We conducted an anonymous, cross-sectional online survey of 240 first-, second-, and third-year residents rotating through 3 McGill University-affiliated intensive care units (ICUs) in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, between July 1, 2012, and June 30, 2013. The survey investigated residents' perceptions of learning opportunities in both the 24-hour and 16-hour systems.   RESULTS Of 240 residents, 168 (70%) completed the survey. Of these residents, 63 (38%) had been exposed to both 24-hour and 16-hour call schedules. The majority of respondents (83%) reported that didactic teaching sessions held by ICU staff physicians were useful. However, of the residents trained in both approaches to overnight call, 44% reported a reduction in learner attendance at didactic teaching sessions, 48% reported a reduction in attendance at midday hospital rounds, and 40% reported a perceived reduction in self-directed reading after the implementation of the new call schedule.   CONCLUSIONS A substantial proportion of residents perceived a reduction in the attendance of instructor-directed and self-directed reading after the implementation of a 16-hour call schedule in the ICU.
BACKGROUND The Pediatrics Milestone Project uses behavioral anchors, narrative descriptions of observable behaviors, to describe learner progression through the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education competencies. Starting June 2014, pediatrics programs were required to submit milestone reports for their trainees semiannually. Likert-type scale assessment tools were not designed to inform milestone reporting, creating a challenge for Clinical Competency Committees.   OBJECTIVE To determine if milestone-based assessments better stratify trainees by training level compared to Likert-type assessments.   METHODS We compared assessment results for 3 subcompetencies after changing from a 5-point Likert scale to milestone-based behavioral anchors in July 2013. Program leadership evaluated the new system by (1) comparing PGY-1 mean scores on Likert-type versus milestone-based assessments; and (2) comparing mean scores on the Likert-type versus milestone-based assessments across PGY levels.   RESULTS Mean scores for PGY-1 residents were significantly higher on the prior year's Likert-type assessments than milestone-based assessments for all 3 subcompetencies (P < .01). Stratification by PGY level was not observed with Likert-type assessments (eg, interpersonal and communication skills 1 [ICS1] mean score for PGY-1, 3.99 versus PGY-3, 3.98; P = .98). In contrast, milestone-based assessments demonstrated stratification by PGY level (eg, the ICS1 mean score was 3.06 for PGY-1, 3.83 for PGY-2, and 3.99 for PGY-3; P < .01 for PGY-1 versus PGY-3). Significantly different means by trainee level were noted across 21 subcompetencies on milestone-based assessments (P < .01 for PGY-1 versus PGY-3).   CONCLUSIONS Initial results indicate milestone-based assessments stratify trainee performance by level better than Likert-type assessments. Average PGY-level scores from milestone-based assessments may ultimately provide guidance for determining whether trainees are progressing at the expected pace.
BACKGROUND Advanced care directives (ACDs) and end-of-life discussions are important and typically difficult to initiate because of the sensitive nature of the topic and competing clinical priorities. Resident physicians need to have these conversations but often do not in their continuity clinics.   OBJECTIVE We implemented a program to (1) increase physician opportunity to discuss end-of-life wishes with their patients, and (2) improve residents' confidence in leading discussions regarding ACDs.   INTERVENTION A total of 95 residents in an academic outpatient internal medicine resident continuity clinic participated in a formalized curriculum (didactic sessions, simulations, and academic detailing). Clinic workflow alterations prompted the staff to question if patients had an ACD or living will, and then cued residents to discuss these issues with the patients if they did not.   RESULTS Of the 77% of patients who were asked about ACDs, 74% had no ACD but were interested in discussing this topic. After our intervention, 65% (62 of 95) of our residents reported having at least 1 outpatient discussion with their patients. Residents reported increased confidence directing and discussing advanced care planning with older patients and conducting a family meeting (P<.01).   CONCLUSIONS By delivering a formalized curriculum and creating a clinical environment that supports such discussions, resident physicians had more ACD discussions with their patients and reported increased confidence. When provided information and opportunity, patients consistently expressed interest in talking with their physician about their advanced care wishes.
BACKGROUND Point-of-care (POC) ultrasound has been shown to improve procedural outcomes and physical examination accuracy in multiple settings. There are limited data regarding the optimal way to train nonradiologists in POC ultrasound. This is a primary barrier to more widespread use of ultrasound in the physical examination.   OBJECTIVE We created a workshop to instruct postgraduate year (PGY)-2 and PGY-3 internal medicine residents in POC ultrasound imaging of the abdominal aorta and kidneys.   METHODS A half-day simulation center workshop was created to review ultrasound operations and teach residents to independently obtain ultrasound images of the abdominal aorta and kidneys on standardized patients with normal anatomy. The workshop incorporated didactic instruction and hands-on ultrasound practice in small groups. Each resident's ability to independently obtain ultrasound images was assessed using a preworkshop and postworkshop skills examination with a standardized patient. Resident knowledge and attitudes toward POC ultrasound were also assessed using a preworkshop and postworkshop test and survey.   RESULTS A total of 58 residents completed the workshop, and 84% were able to independently obtain high-quality images of the abdominal aorta and kidney after workshop completion, compared with 16% on the preworkshop test. Residents demonstrated a statistically significant increase in their self-reported confidence with ultrasound operation and image acquisition.   CONCLUSIONS Training using standardized patients can prepare residents to independently obtain POC ultrasound images of the aorta and kidneys. Training resulted in increased resident confidence with POC ultrasound and self-reported likelihood of future use.
BACKGROUND Mentorship programs are perceived as valuable, yet little is known about the effect of program design on mentoring effectiveness.   INTERVENTION We developed a program focused on mentoring relationship quality and evaluated how subsequent relationships compared to preexisting informal pairings.   METHODS Faculty members were invited by e-mail to participate in a new mentoring program. Participants were asked to complete a biography, subsequently provided to second- and third-year internal medicine residents. Residents were instructed to contact available mentors, and ultimately designate a formal mentor. All faculty and residents were provided a half-day workshop training, written guidelines, and e-mails. Reminders were e-mailed and announced in conferences approximately monthly. Residents were surveyed at the end of the academic year.   RESULTS Thirty-seven faculty members completed the biography, and 70% (26 of 37) of residents responded to the survey. Of the resident respondents, 77% (20 of 26) chose a formal mentor. Of the remainder, most had a previous informal mentor. Overall, 96% (25 of 26) of the residents had identified a mentor of some kind compared to 50% (13 of 26) before the intervention (P<.001), and 70% (14 of 20) who chose formal mentors identified them as actual mentors. Similar numbers of residents described their mentors as invested in the mentorship, and there was no statistical difference in the number of times mentors and mentees met.   CONCLUSIONS Facilitated selection of formal mentors produced relationships similar to preexisting informal ones. This model may increase the prevalence of mentorship without decreasing quality.
INTRODUCTION Medicine is currently developing at a breath holding pace. Diseases and medical conditions for which no remedy was available only a few years ago, can now be treated or even completely cured. However, this advancement of medicine comes with increasing complexity in many situations.   AIM AND METHOD This article discusses how we have to adapt our health care organization and our work as physicians to better cope with the new challenges of the enormous advancement of medicine, with a specific focus on internal medicine.   CONCLUSIONS If we want our patients to obtain maximal benefit of the progress in biomedical knowledge and the ensuing improved clinical outcomes in many areas we need to further focus and concentrate complex medical care in a team-based approach. In addition, we need to match increasing subspecialization with an attitude of generalism, both in our clinical work and in our teaching and training programs.
PURPOSE Appropriate trust and supervision facilitate trainees' growth toward unsupervised practice. The authors investigated how supervisor experience influences trust, supervision, and subsequently trainee learning.   METHOD In a two-phase qualitative inductive content analysis, phase one entailed reviewing 44 internal medicine resident and attending supervisor interviews from two institutions (July 2013 to September 2014) for themes on how supervisor experience influences trust and supervision. Three supervisor exemplars (early, developing, experienced) were developed and shared in phase two focus groups at a single institution, wherein 23 trainees validated the exemplars and discussed how each impacted learning (November 2015).   RESULTS Phase one: Four domains of trust and supervision varying with experience emerged: data, approach, perspective, clinical. Early supervisors were detail oriented and determined trust depending on task completion (data), were rule based (approach), drew on their experiences as trainees to guide supervision (perspective), and felt less confident clinically compared with more experienced supervisors (clinical). Experienced supervisors determined trust holistically (data), checked key aspects of patient care selectively and covertly (approach), reflected on individual experiences supervising (perspective), and felt comfortable managing clinical problems and gauging trainee abilities (clinical). Phase two: Trainees felt the exemplars reflected their experiences, described their preferences and learning needs shifting over time, and emphasized the importance of supervisor flexibility to match their learning needs.   CONCLUSIONS With experience, supervisors differ in their approach to trust and supervision. Supervisors need to trust themselves before being able to trust others. Trainees perceive these differences and seek supervision approaches that align with their learning needs.
BACKGROUND Prior reviews of geriatrics curricula for internal medicine (IM) and family medicine (FM) residents have not evaluated study quality or assessed learning objectives or specific IM or FM competencies.   OBJECTIVE This review of geriatrics curricula for IM and FM residents seeks to answer 3 questions: (1) What types of learning outcomes were measured? (2) How were learning outcomes measured? and (3) What was the quality of the studies?   METHODS We evaluated geriatrics curricula that reported learning objectives or competencies, teaching methods, and learning outcomes, and those that used a comparative design. We searched PubMed and 4 other data sets from 2003-2015, and assessed learning outcomes, outcome measures, and the quality of studies using the Medical Education Research Study Quality Instrument (MERSQI) and Best Evidence Medical Education (BEME) methods.   RESULTS Fourteen studies met inclusion criteria. Most curricula were intended for IM residents in the inpatient setting; only 1 was solely dedicated to FM residents. Median duration was 1 month, and minimum geriatrics competencies covered were 4. Learning outcomes ranged from Kirkpatrick levels 1 to 3. Studies that reported effect size showed a considerable impact on attitudes and knowledge, mainly via pretests and posttests. The mean MERSQI score was 10.5 (range, 8.5-13) on a scale of 5 (lowest quality) to 18 (highest quality).   CONCLUSIONS Few geriatrics curricula for IM and FM residents that included learning outcome assessments were published recently. Overall, changes in attitudes and knowledge were sizeable, but reporting was limited to low to moderate Kirkpatrick levels. Study quality was moderate.
BACKGROUND The fourth year of medical school has come under recent scrutiny for its lack of structure, cost- and time-effectiveness, and quality of education it provides. Some have advocated for increasing clinical burden in the fourth year, while others have suggested it be abolished.   OBJECTIVE To assess the relationship between fourth-year course load and success during internship.   METHODS We reviewed transcripts of 78 internal medicine interns from 2011-2013 and compared the number of intensive courses (defined as subinternships, intensive care, surgical clerkships, and emergency medicine rotations) with multi-source performance evaluations from the internship. We assessed relative risk (RR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) of achieving excellent scores according to the number of intensive courses taken, using generalized estimating equations, adjusting for demographics, US Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) Step 1 board scores, and other measures of medical school performance.   RESULTS For each additional intensive course taken, the RR of obtaining an excellent score per intensive course was 1.05 (95% CI 1.03-1.07, P<.001), whereas the RR per nonintensive course taken was 0.99 (95% CI 0.98-1.00, P=.03). An association of intensive course work with increased risk of excellent performance was seen across multiple clinical competencies, including medical knowledge (RR 1.08, 95% CI 1.04-1.11); patient care (RR 1.07, 95% CI 1.04-1.10); and practice-based learning (RR 1.05, 95% CI 1.03-1.09).   CONCLUSIONS For this single institution's cohort of medical interns, increased exposure to intensive course work during the fourth year of medical school was associated with better clinical evaluations during internship.
BACKGROUND Previous studies have shown a falloff in physicians' physical activity from medical school to residency. Poor fitness may result in stress, increase resident burnout, and contribute to mortality from cardiovascular disease and other causes. Physicians with poor exercise habits are also less likely to counsel patients about exercise. Prior studies have reported resident physical activity but not cardiorespiratory fitness age.   OBJECTIVE The study was conducted in 2 residency programs (3 hospitals) to assess internal medicine residents' exercise habits as well as their cardiorespiratory fitness age.   METHODS Data regarding physical fitness levels and exercise habits were collected in an anonymous cross-sectional survey. Cardiopulmonary fitness age was determined using fitness calculator based on the Nord-Tr첩ndelag Health Study (HUNT).   RESULTS Of 199 eligible physicians, 125 (63%) responded to the survey. Of respondents, 11 (9%) reported never having exercised prior to residency and 45 (36%) reported not exercising during residency (P < .001). In addition, 42 (34%) reported exercising every day prior to residency, while only 5 (4%) reported exercising daily during residency (P < .001), with 99 (79%) participants indicating residency obligations as their main barrier to exercise. We found residents' calculated mean fitness age to be 5.6 years higher than their mean chronological age (P < .001).   CONCLUSIONS Internal medicine residents reported significant decreases in physical activity and fitness. Residents attributed time constraints due to training as a key barrier to physical activity.
BACKGROUND An important component of internal medicine residency is clinical immersion in core rotations to expose first-year residents to common diagnoses.   OBJECTIVE Quantify intern experience with common diagnoses through clinical documentation in an electronic health record.   METHODS We analyzed all clinical notes written by postgraduate year (PGY) 1, PGY-2, and PGY-3 residents on medicine service at an academic medical center July 1, 2012, through June 30, 2014. We quantified the number of notes written by PGY-1s at 1 of 3 hospitals where they rotate, by the number of notes written about patients with a specific principal billing diagnosis, which we defined as diagnosis-days. We used the International Classification of Diseases 9 (ICD-9) and the Clinical Classification Software (CCS) to group the diagnoses.   RESULTS We analyzed 53066 clinical notes covering 10022 hospitalizations with 1436 different ICD-9 diagnoses spanning 217 CCS diagnostic categories. The 10 most common ICD-9 diagnoses accounted for 23% of diagnosis-days, while the 10 most common CCS groupings accounted for more than 40% of the diagnosis-days. Of 122 PGY-1s, 107 (88%) spent at least 2 months on the service, and 3% were exposed to all of the top 10 ICD-9 diagnoses, while 31% had experience with fewer than 5 of the top 10 diagnoses. In addition, 17% of PGY-1s saw all top 10 CCS diagnoses, and 5% had exposure to fewer than 5 CCS diagnoses.   CONCLUSIONS Automated detection of clinical experience may help programs review inpatient clinical experiences of PGY-1s.
BACKGROUND Team-based learning (TBL) is an instructional method that is being increasingly incorporated in health professions education, although use in graduate medical education (GME) has been more limited.   OBJECTIVE To curate and describe themes that emerged from a virtual journal club discussion about TBL in GME, held across multiple digital platforms, while also evaluating the use of social media in online academic discussions.   METHODS The Journal of Graduate Medical Education (JGME) and the Academic Life in Emergency Medicine blog facilitated a weeklong, open-access, virtual journal club on the 2015 JGME article 'Use of Team-Based Learning Pedagogy for Internal Medicine Ambulatory Resident Teaching.' Using 4 stimulus questions (hosted on a blog as a starting framework), we facilitated discussions via the blog, Twitter, and Google Hangouts on Air platforms. We evaluated 2-week web analytics and performed a thematic analysis of the discussion.   RESULTS The virtual journal club reached a large international audience as exemplified by the blog page garnering 685 page views from 241 cities in 42 countries. Our thematic analysis identified 4 domains relevant to TBL in GME: (1) the benefits and barriers to TBL; (2) the design of teams; (3) the role of assessment and peer evaluation; and (4) crowdsourced TBL resources.   CONCLUSIONS The virtual journal club provided a novel forum across multiple social media platforms, engaging authors, content experts, and the health professions education community in a discussion about the importance, impediments to implementation, available resources, and logistics of adopting TBL in GME.
BACKGROUND Direct observation of clinical skills is a cornerstone of competency-based education and training. Ensuring direct observation in a consistent fashion has been a significant challenge for residency programs.   OBJECTIVE The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of a novel evaluation system, designed to achieve ongoing direct observation of residents, examine changes in resident observation practices, and understand faculty attitudes toward direct observation and the evaluation system.   METHODS Internal medicine residents on an ambulatory block rotation participated in a new evaluation system, which replaced a single end-of-rotation summative evaluation with 9 formative evaluations based on direct observation. Faculty received training in direct observation and use of the forms, and residents were given responsibility to collect 9 observations per rotation. Faculty members contacted residents at the beginning and middle of the rotation to ensure completion of the observations. Residents and faculty also completed postrotation surveys to gauge the impact of the new system.   RESULTS A total of 507 patient encounters were directly observed, and 52 of 57 (91%) residents completed all 9 observations. Residents reported considerably more direct observation than prior to the intervention, and most reported changes to their clinical skills based on faculty feedback. Faculty reported improvements in their attitudes, increased their use of direct observation, and preferred the new system to the old one.   CONCLUSIONS A novel evaluation system replacing summative evaluations with multiple formative evaluations based on direct observation was successful in achieving high rates of observations, and improving faculty attitudes toward direct observation.
OBJECTIVE: To present self-assessments of knowledge about mechanical ventilation made by final-year medical students, residents, and physicians taking qualifying courses at the Brazilian Society of Internal Medicine who work in urgent and emergency settings.   METHODS: A 34-item questionnaire comprising different areas of knowledge and training in mechanical ventilation was given to 806 medical students, residents, and participants in qualifying courses at 11 medical schools in Brazil. The questionnaire's self-assessment items for knowledge were transformed into scores.   RESULTS: The average score among all participants was 21% (0-100%). Of the total, 85% respondents felt they did not receive sufficient information about mechanical ventilation during medical training. Additionally, 77% of the group reported that they would not know when to start noninvasive ventilation in a patient, and 81%, 81%, and 89% would not know how to start volume control, pressure control and pressure support ventilation modes, respectively. Furthermore, 86.4% and 94% of the participants believed they would not identify the basic principles of mechanical ventilation in patients with obstructive pulmonary disease and acute respiratory distress syndrome, respectively, and would feel insecure beginning ventilation. Finally, 77% said they would fear for the safety of a patient requiring invasive mechanical ventilation under their care.   CONCLUSION: Self-assessment of knowledge and self-perception of safety for managing mechanical ventilation were deficient among residents, students and emergency physicians from a sample in Brazil.
This study is part of the monograph entitled Scientific Elites and Politics (1945-1948) to be published soon. The relationships of political parties with several elite groups, such as groups of agronomic, human, economic, legal, technical and natural sciences, as well as the roles of these elites in scientific life, have been looked into and published in renowned periodicals. Using new sources, different specialist groups' and political powers' suggestions of reshaping medical education in 1947 and 1948, are presented. The medical elite's situation at universities and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is also outlined. The study renders an account of the entire post-war medical elite. It will be stated who and based on what scientific achievement became member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, who was appointed to professor and who became a habilitated doctor. This study, which is a desideratum of research, may not only interest researchers but is aimed at a broader readership, including physicians. Orv. Hetil., 2017, 158(11), 432-437.
Importance While the substantial variation in health care spending across regions and hospitals is well known, key clinical decisions are ultimately made by physicians. However, the degree to which spending varies across physicians and the clinical consequences of that variation are unknown.   Objective To investigate variation in spending across physicians and its association with patient outcomes.   Design, Setting, and Participants For this retrospective data analysis, we analyzed a 20% random sample of Medicare fee-for-service beneficiaries 65 years and older who were hospitalized with a nonelective medical condition and treated by a general internist between January 1, 2011, and December 31, 2014. We first quantified the proportion of variation in Medicare Part B spending attributable to hospitals, physicians, and patients. We then examined the association between physician spending and patient outcomes, adjusted for patient and physician characteristics and hospital fixed effects (effectively comparing physicians within the same hospital). Our primary analysis focused on hospitalist physicians, whose patients are plausibly quasirandomized within a hospital based on physician work schedule. A secondary analysis focused on general internists overall. To ensure that patient illness severity did not directly affect physician spending estimates, we calculated physicians' spending levels in 2011 through 2012 and examined outcomes of their patients in 2013 and 2014.   Exposures Physicians' adjusted Part B spending level in 2011 through 2012.   Main Outcomes and Measures Patients' 30-day mortality and readmission rates in 2013 and 2014.   Results To determine the amount of variation across physicians we included 485016 hospitalizations treated by 21963 physicians at 2837 acute care hospitals for the analysis of hospitalists and 839512 hospitalizations treated by 50079 physicians at 3195 acute care hospitals for the analysis of general internists. Variation in spending across physicians within hospital was larger than variation across hospitals (for hospitalists, 8.4% across physicians vs 7.0% across hospitals; for general internists, 10.5% across physicians vs 6.2% across hospitals). Higher physician spending was not associated with lower 30-day mortality (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] for additional $100 in physician spending, 1.00; 95% CI, 0.98-1.01; P=.47) or readmissions (aOR, 1.00; 95% CI, 0.99-1.01; P=.54) for hospitalists within the same hospital. We observed similar patterns among general internists.   Conclusions and Relevance Health care spending varies more across individual physicians than across hospitals. However, higher physician spending is not associated with better outcomes of hospitalized patients. Our findings suggest policies targeting both physicians and hospitals may be more effective in reducing wasteful spending than policies focusing solely on hospitals.
BACKGROUND Resident duty hours have recently been under criticism, with concerns for resident and patient well-being. Historically, call shifts have been long, and some residency training programs have now restricted shift lengths. Data and opinions about the effects of such restrictions are conflicting. The Internal Medicine Residency Program at Dalhousie University recently moved from a traditional call structure to a day float/night float system. This study evaluated how this change in duty hours affected resident perceptions in several key domains.   METHODS Senior residents from an internal medicine training program in Canada responded to an anonymous online survey immediately before and 6혻months after the implementation of duty hour reform. The survey contained questions relating to three major domains: resident wellness, ability to deliver quality health care, and medical education experience. Mean pre- and post-intervention scores were compared using the t-test for paired samples.   RESULTS Twenty-three of 27 (85혻%) senior residents completed both pre- and post-reform surveys. Residents perceived significant changes in many domains with duty hour reform. These included improved general wellness, less exposure to personal harm, fewer feelings of isolation, less potential for error, improvement in clinical skills expertise, increased work efficiency, more successful teaching, increased proficiency in medical skills, more successful learning, and fewer rotation disruptions.   CONCLUSIONS Senior residents in a Canadian internal medicine training program perceived significant benefits in medical education experience, ability to deliver healthcare, and resident wellness after implementation of duty hour reform.
BACKGROUND Simulation-based training is currently embedded in most health professions education curricula. Without evidence for how trainees think about their simulation-based learning, some training techniques may not support trainees' learning strategies.   OBJECTIVE This study explored how residents think about and self-regulate learning during a lumbar puncture (LP) training session using a simulator.   METHODS In 2010, 20 of 45 postgraduate year 1 internal medicine residents attended a mandatory procedural skills training boot camp. Independently, residents practiced the entire LP skill on a part-task trainer using a clinical LP tray and proper sterile technique. We interviewed participants regarding how they thought about and monitored their learning processes, and then we conducted a thematic analysis of the interview data.   RESULTS The analysis suggested that participants considered what they could and could not learn from the simulator; they developed their self-confidence by familiarizing themselves with the LP equipment and repeating the LP algorithmic steps. Participants articulated an idiosyncratic model of learning they used to interpret the challenges and successes they experienced. Participants reported focusing on obtaining cerebrospinal fluid and memorizing the 'routine' version of the LP procedure. They did not report much thinking about their learning strategies (eg, self-questioning).   CONCLUSIONS During simulation-based training, residents described assigning greater weight to achieving procedural outcomes and tended to think that the simulated task provided them with routine, generalizable skills. Over this typical 1-hour session, trainees did not appear to consider their strategic mindfulness (ie, awareness and use of learning strategies).
BACKGROUND Educational conferences have long served as a foundation of medical education. Sending reminder text pages prior to the start of conferences is a method that may be employed to enhance conference attendance.   OBJECTIVE The goal of our study was to determine if routine text paging before regularly scheduled conferences improves attendance among fellows in 3 internal medicine programs.   METHODS A prospective, randomized, crossover study included 3 fellowship programs: pulmonary and critical care, cardiovascular disease, and hematology-oncology. The study was performed between October 2014 and March 2015. All fellows were included and randomized to 1 of 2 groups (with subsequent crossover to opposite group): Pages or No Pages. Paging reminders, which included conference title, location, and time, were sent 30 minutes prior to every conference for those in the intervention arm. Attendance was collected through a standard attendance log using self-registration.   RESULTS A total of 46 fellows and 156 conferences were included for analysis, with 75 during the first 3 months and 81 during the second 3 months. There were no differences in individual overall attendance between randomized groups for the entire study period (42.9% versus 46.5%, P = .46). Paging reminders had no effect on overall individual attendance (43.7% versus 45.6%, P = .50). In addition, no significant differences were identified for individuals within each fellowship and training year.   CONCLUSIONS Paging reminders prior to a regularly scheduled conference had no effect on overall attendance in this study. Fellows reported that clinical obligations were a major barrier to conference attendance.
BACKGROUND Internal medicine residents care for a sizable number of patients with chronic pain. Programs need educational strategies to promote safe opioid prescribing.   OBJECTIVE To describe a safe opioid prescribing education program utilizing an objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) and report the resulting impact on residents' knowledge, confidence, and self-reported practices.   METHODS Using a quasi-experimental design, 39 internal medicine residents from an urban academic medical center were assigned to 1 of 4 groups: 1-hour lecture only, lecture followed by immediate OSCE, lecture followed by 4-month delayed OSCE, and control. Safe opioid prescribing knowledge, confidence, and self-reported practices were assessed at baseline and at 8 months.   RESULTS At 8 months, knowledge, confidence, and self-reported practices improved in the control and in all 3 intervention groups. The immediate OSCE group had the greatest improvements in combined confidence scores within group (0.74, P=.01) compared to controls (0.52, P=.05), using a 5-point scale. This group also had the greatest improvement in self-reported practice changes (1.04, P=.04), while other groups showed nonsignificant improvements-delayed OSCE (0.43, P=.44), lecture only (0.66, P=.24), and control (0.43, P=.19).   CONCLUSIONS Safe opioid prescribing education that includes a lecture immediately followed by an OSCE had an impact on residents' confidence and self-reported practices greater than those for delayed OSCE or lecture only groups. There was no difference in knowledge improvement among the groups. Lecture followed by an OSCE was highly regarded by residents, but required additional resources.
BACKGROUND Quality improvement (QI) is essential in clinical practice, requiring effective teaching in residency. Barriers include lack of structure, mentorship, and time.   OBJECTIVE To develop a longitudinal QI curriculum for an internal medicine residency program with limited faculty resources and evaluate its effectiveness.   METHODS All medicine residents were provided with dedicated research time every 8 weeks during their ambulatory blocks. Groups of 3 to 5 residents across all postgraduate year levels were formed. Two faculty members and 1 chief resident advised all groups, meeting with each group every 8 weeks, with concrete expectations for each meeting. Residents were required to complete didactic modules from the Institute for Healthcare Improvement. Current residents and alumni were surveyed for feedback.   RESULTS Over 3 years, all eligible residents (92 residents per year in 2012-2014, 102 in 2014-2015) participated in the curriculum. Residents worked on 54 quality assessment and 18 QI projects, with 6 QI projects showing statistically significant indicator improvements. About 50 mentoring hours per year were contributed by 2 faculty advisors and a chief resident. No other staff or IT support was needed. A total of 69 posters/abstracts were produced, with 13 projects presented at national or regional conferences. Survey respondents found the program useful; most (75% residents, 63% alumni) reported it changed their practice, and 71% of alumni found it useful after residency.   CONCLUSIONS Our longitudinal QI curriculum requires minimal faculty time and resulted in increased QI-related publications and measurable improvements in quality indicators. Alumni reported a positive effect on practice after graduation.
BACKGROUND Musculoskeletal (MSK) problems are common, and a recent US Bone and Joint Initiative calls for new models of education and professional collaboration. Evidence of feasibility and acceptability of innovative methods are needed.   OBJECTIVE We assessed if an experimental immersion interdisciplinary MSK curriculum would be acceptable to residents from different specialties, be feasible within existing rotations, and be effective in strengthening clinical skills.   METHODS Through funding from the Veterans Affairs Office of Academic Affiliations and the Office of Specialty Care, we developed a Center of Excellence in MSK Care and Education. A core element is the monthly MSK Education Week, which teaches skills and provides opportunities to apply these in clinical settings. Participants include internal medicine, physical medicine and rehabilitation, and orthopaedic surgery residents, as well as students and residents from other health professions programs. All were assigned to the MSK week in lieu of other clinical experiences. Faculty encompassed primary care, rheumatology, endocrinology, orthopaedics, and physical medicine and rehabilitation. Assessments include surveys and a 2-station objective structured clinical examination (OSCE).   RESULTS Since 2012, a total of 176 trainees have participated. Percentage of trainees reporting ability to evaluate and manage MSK complaints increased (9% to 87% for shoulder; 18% to 86% for knee), and confidence performing MSK injections increased from 10% to 70%. Competency in evaluation of shoulder and knee pain was confirmed by OSCEs.   CONCLUSIONS The MSK week program was accepted by residents from the 3 specialties, with learners reporting improved ability to perform shoulder and knee examinations, as demonstrated by OSCEs.
BACKGROUND The value of care, defined as the relationship of cost, harm, and benefit, has garnered increased focus in recent years. Program directors (PDs) can provide information about resident skill and institutional priorities related to high-value care.   OBJECTIVE The objective of the study was to evaluate changes between 2012 and 2014 in PD-reported resident skills and institutional priorities related to high-value care.   METHODS We performed annual surveys of US internal medicine PDs from 2012-2014 and evaluated responses to identical questions related to high care value. The survey was developed by the American College of Physicians and the Alliance for Academic Internal Medicine.   RESULTS Response rates were 235 of 378 (62.2%) in 2012, 213 of 380 (56.1%) in 2013, and 215 of 391 (54.9%) in 2014. The majority of PDs reported that balancing benefits, harms, and costs was (1) a teaching priority; (2) the subject of didactics; (3) discussed by residents; and (4) emphasized by institutional leadership. Approximately one-third reported that unnecessary ordering occurred most or all the time, with no changes in the survey period. When asked about resident ordering compared to 3 years ago, 42.5% (88 of 207) of PDs reported residents ordering fewer unnecessary tests most or all the time in 2014, compared to 28.1% (63 of 224) in 2012 (P=.002).   CONCLUSIONS Internal medicine PDs reported high levels of institutional interest in and teaching of care value between 2012 and 2014, but responses for later years suggest improvement in trainees avoiding unnecessary testing.
BACKGROUND Cross-cultural care is recognized by the ACGME as an important aspect of US residency training. Resident physicians' preparedness to deliver cross-cultural care has been well studied, while preparedness to provide care specifically to immigrant and refugee populations has not been.   METHODS We administered a survey in October 2013 to 199 residents in Internal Medicine, Pediatrics, and Medicine/Pediatrics at the University of Minnesota, assessing perceived knowledge, attitudes, and experience with immigrant and refugee patients.   RESULTS Eighty-three of 199 residents enrolled in Internal Medicine, Pediatrics and Medicine/Pediatrics programs at the University of Minnesota completed the survey (42혻%). Most (n = 68, 82혻%) enjoyed caring for immigrants and refugees. 54 (65혻%) planned to care for this population after residency, though 45 (54혻%) were not comfortable with their knowledge regarding immigrant and refugee health. Specific challenges were language (n = 81, 98혻%), cultural barriers (n = 76, 92혻%), time constraints (n = 60, 72혻%), and limited knowledge of tropical medicine (n = 57, 69혻%). 67 (82혻%) wanted more training in refugee and immigrant health.   CONCLUSIONS The majority of residents enjoyed caring for immigrant and refugee patients and planned to continue after residency. Despite favorable attitudes, residents identified many barriers to providing good care. Some involved cultural and language barriers, while others were structural. Finally, most respondents felt they needed more education, did not feel comfortable with their knowledge, and wanted more training during residency. These data suggest that residency programs consider increasing training in these specific areas of concern.
In 2015 about 1.1 million refugees came to Germany. As a혻consequence public health authorities as well as physicians in hospitals and surgeries were faced with considerable challenges and problems. Between January and March 2016 the German Society of Internal Medicine (DGIM) and the Professional Organisation of German Internists (BDI) initiated a혻survey among their members in order to ascertain which diseases and problems physicians were confronted with. A total of 28,063 members of the DGIM and BDI participated in the survey of which 3626 members answered all questions. This equals a혻response rate of 11.31%. Of the respondents, 1865 (51.9%) stated holding employment positions and 987 (27.4%) were self-employed. The predominant number of physicians were under the impression that the composition of diseases needing treatment did not change within the time period under survey (55.7% of employed and 73.7% of self-employed physicians). Typical disease patterns of internal medicine were mentioned here. Most significant problems when treating migrants and refugees were linguistic communication, cultural affiliation, and psychological traumatic experiences. Little or nothing is known about the modalities of reimbursement for the respective health care areas, especially by physicians in employed positions (84.6%). In agreement with the vote of the 119th Deutscher 횆rztetag, DGIM and BDI recommend the introduction of a혻nationwide health insurance card for migrants and refugees.
OBJECTIVES To ascertain the views of current Acute Internal Medicine (AIM) trainees on the strengths and weakness of the specialty, their training programmes, practical procedures and the provision of training days.   METHODS Online electronic survey circulated to all Higher Specialty Trainees (HST) in AIM. Participation was voluntary and all answers confidential. A total of 108 trainees responded.   RESULTS There were respondents from across the United Kingdom. The majority of respondents are happy or quite happy with their training (61%), with 11% unhappy or very unhappy. The variety of workload (68%), specialty exposure (69%) and practical procedures (67%) were strengths while lack of respect from other specialties (55%) and rota gaps (59%) remain significant problems. 53% of respondents feel they are expected to cover more rota gaps than their GIM colleagues, and 54% trainees feel they do not get a session a week allocated to them for specialist skill training/admin. Only 33% of trainees expect to get dedicated leadership and/or management training during their programme, and a large proportion of trainees (78%) feel that some form of ultrasound training should be a core part of the curriculum. Despite the difficulties, 85% of respondents would recommend AIM as a specialty.   CONCLUSIONS This survey highlights some of the positives and negatives of training in AIM, and highlights areas where potential improvements to programmes could be made. Comparison of the data with 2015 shows small improvements in a number of areas, but still some significant concerns remain. The findings were fed back to the Training Committee in March.
BACKGROUND Written comments by medical student supervisors provide written foundation for grade narratives and deans' letters and play an important role in student's professional development. Written comments are widely used but little has been published about the quality of written comments. We hypothesized that medical students share an understanding of qualities inherent to a high-quality and a low-quality narrative comment and we aimed to determine the features that define high- and low-quality comments.   METHODS Using the well-established anthropological pile-sort method, medical students sorted written comments into 'helpful' and 'unhelpful' piles, then were interviewed to determine how they evaluated comments. We used multidimensional scaling and cluster analysis to analyze data, revealing how written comments were sorted across student participants. We calculated the degree of shared knowledge to determine the level of internal validity in the data. We transcribed and coded data elicited during the structured interview to contextualize the student's answers. Length of comment was compared using one-way analysis of variance; valence and frequency comments were thought of as helpful were analyzed by chi-square.   RESULTS Analysis of written comments revealed four distinct clusters. Cluster A comments reinforced good behaviors or gave constructive criticism for how changes could be made. Cluster B comments exhorted students to continue non-specific behaviors already exhibited. Cluster C comments used grading rubric terms without giving student-specific examples. Cluster D comments used sentence fragments lacking verbs and punctuation. Student data exhibited a strong fit to the consensus model, demonstrating that medical students share a robust model of attributes of helpful and unhelpful comments. There was no correlation between valence of comment and perceived helpfulness.   CONCLUSIONS Students find comments demonstrating knowledge of the student and providing specific examples of appropriate behavior to be reinforced or inappropriate behavior to be eliminated helpful, and comments that are non-actionable and non-specific to be least helpful. Our research and analysis allow us to make recommendations helpful for faculty development around written feedback.
BACKGROUND Whether the 'July Effect' affects perspectives or has prompted changes in US Internal Medicine residency programs is unknown.   METHODS We designed a survey-based study to assess views and efforts aimed at preventing harm in July. A convenience sampling strategy (email listserv and direct messages to program leaders via the Electronic Residency Application Service) was used to disseminate the survey.   RESULTS The response rate was 16% (65/418 programs); however, a total of 262 respondents from all 50 states where residency programs are located were included. Most respondents (n혻= 201; 77%) indicated that errors occur more frequently in July compared with other months. The most common identified errors included incorrect or delayed orders (n혻= 183, 70% and n혻= 167, 64%, respectively), errors in discharge medications (n혻= 144, 55%), and inadequate information exchange at handoffs (n혻= 143, 55%). Limited trainee experience (n혻= 208, 79%), lack of understanding hospital workflow, and difficulty using electronic medical record systems (n혻= 194; 74% and n혻= 188; 72%, respectively) were reported as the most common factors contributing to these errors. Programs reported instituting several efforts to prevent harm in July: for interns, additional electronic medical record training (n혻= 178; 68%) and education on handoffs and discharge processes (n혻= 176; 67% and n혻= 108; 41%, respectively) were introduced. Similarly, for senior residents, teaching sessions on how to lead a team (n혻= 158; 60%) and preferential placement of certain residents on harder rotations (n혻= 103; 39%) were also reported. Most respondents (n혻= 140; 53%) also solicited specific 'July attendings' using a volunteer system or highest teaching ratings.   CONCLUSION Residency programs in Internal Medicine appear to have instituted various changes to mitigate harm in July. Further evaluation to understand the impact of these interventions on trainee education and patient safety is necessary.
This article provides an update on progress toward establishing pulmonary and critical care medicine (PCCM) fellowship training as one of the first four subspecialties to be recognized and supported by the Chinese government. Designed and implemented throughout 2013 and 2014 by a collaborative effort of the Chinese Thoracic Society (CTS) and the American College of Chest Physicians (CHEST), 12 leading Chinese hospitals enrolled a total of 64 fellows into standardized PCCM training programs with common curricula, educational activities, and assessment measures. Supplemental educational materials, online assessment tools, and institutional site visits designed to evaluate and provide feedback on the programs' progress are being provided by CHEST. As a result of this initial progress, the Chinese government, through the Chinese Medical Doctor's Association, endorsed the concept of subspecialty fellowship training in China, with PCCM as one of the four pilot subspecialties to be operationalized nationwide in 2016, followed by implementation across other subspecialties by 2020. This article also reflects on the achievements of the training sites and the challenges they face and outlines plans to enhance and expand PCCM training and practice in China.
Immunization is one of the most effective public health measures to prevent disease. Despite relatively good vaccination rates in childhood in many parts of the world, vaccines to prevent diseases are underused in the adult population and adult vaccination rates are still far below the target. The European Federation of Internal Medicine (EFIM), declared that 'internal medicine must focus on better care for individuals, better health care for populations and lower costs'. Adult vaccination is a good example of a public health initiative aimed at reducing morbidity and mortality, but awareness of the need for adult vaccination and uptake of the programs across Europe is variable. The Adult Vaccination Campaign in Europe (ADVICE) was developed with an aim to raise awareness for adult vaccination and to understand the dynamics of the vaccination practices and the possible barriers against achieving targeted vaccination rates in Europe. In order to reach vaccination targets, we need evidence based, up to date guidelines; recommendations at national and international levels; surveillance for vaccination rates; and opportunities to provide vaccines more readily. Leadership at a European level and a firm research and action agenda are crucial. The European Federation of Internal Medicine can take the lead as it declared its interest on 'better care for individuals, better health care for populations'. Hence, we consider ADVICE a very timely and very valuable initiative to draw a roadmap to improve adult vaccination rates in Europe.
Both of Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine which offers high, technical and safe medical treatment and Horiba, Ltd. which has small CBC analyzers in a core product established a joint research institute for development of advanced laboratory test analyzer from January 1, 2012 in Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine as the 'advanced treatment hospital' where the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare has got approved. Clinical needs about analyzer and reagent for a laboratory test are being investigated to the emergency medical care unit and the intensive care unit as well as the laboratory test part in the affiliated hospital and many medical departments of the pediatrics, the internal medicine and the surgery. Developing the new analyzer based on high technology, evaluating the performance of them and spreading them to a medical examination and treatment site is our main target.
The 'choosing wisely' recommendations of the German Society of Internal Medicine (DGIM) and its specialist societies address diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, which are of particular medical importance but applied too often or too rarely in clinical practice. The aim is to further improve treatment of patients. Important topics of overuse and insufficient treatment related to the diagnostics, therapy, prevention and exclusion of infectious diseases could be identified. These topics not only play an important role in the discipline of infectious diseases but are also relevant for other internal medical disciplines. These topics related to infectious diseases have also been integrated into the recommendations of the German Society of Gastroenterology, Digestive and Metabolic Diseases as well as the German Societies for Internal Intensive Care and Emergency Medicine, for Pneumology, for Nephrology and for Rheumatology. The pivotal issues of the recommendations are the inappropriate use of antibiotics and insufficient vaccination rates.
For health institutions, knowing the fate of human resources within their classrooms is an extremely complicated task. Within the Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, where most specialists are trained in our country, with a clear orientation towards the pursuit of excellence and satisfaction of their needs human resources for health in Mexico is provided, hence the need to identify the professional profile and career destination of its graduates, which will be useful in the training of human resources for health.
OBJECTIVE We sought to obtain a deeper understanding of the differing needs and expectations of inpatient and ED medical staff regarding the admission process for medical patients.   DESIGN Online questionnaire regarding their attitudes to and perceptions of various aspects of the admission process was used.   SETTING The setting is a tertiary 640-bed adult hospital with over 60000 ED presentations per year and an inpatient admission rate of 30%.   RESULTS A total of 42 out of 56 (75%) internal medical trainees (IMT) felt that the ED admission workup standard was lower or much lower than the inpatient standard; however, 10 of 16 (62.5%) ED trainees (EDT) thought it was similar (P=0.009). Regarding why IMT order additional tests in the ED, the major reason supported by IMT was to 'identify or exclude urgent pathology' (53/56, 96.4%); however, this reason ranked only fifth for EDT (2/16, 12.5%) who ranked 'to ensure nothing was missed' (12/15, 80%) first. A total of 24 out of 56 (42.8%) IMT felt that if ED admissions were enacted without IMT review, inappropriate admissions to hospital would occur regularly although only one of 16 EDT (6.3%) agreed (P=0.025). A total of 14 out of 16 (87.5%) EDT but only 16 of 56 (23.2%) IMT were comfortable with admissions occurring without inpatient review in the ED (P<0.001). The top two perceived barriers to a smooth and timely admission process for IMT were patient instability (34/43, 79.1%) and inadequate ED workup (37/49, 75.5%); for EDT, they were excessive IMT workload (11/14, 78.6%) and referral close to the end of an IMT shift (7/11, 63.6%).   CONCLUSION Substantial barriers to more harmonious admission processes exist. A 'paradigm shift' where roles and responsibilities are clear might be required. Defusing tension across the ED-inpatient interface should improve efficiency and ensure that patient outcomes remain the focus.
BACKGROUND Perceptions of residents regarding pregnancy during training were compared over time and across surgical, internal medicine, obstetrics/gynecology, and anesthesia specialties.   METHODS A single-institution survey was distributed to female residents in 2008 and to female and male residents in 2015. Nonparametric comparisons of Likert scale response distributions were performed on the supportiveness for pregnancy of the residency program and childbearing influences of female residents in 2008 and 2015, between specialties for each survey year, and between male and female residents in 2015.   RESULTS The response rates of female residents were 74.8% and 50.5% in 2008 and 2015. In 2015, program directors and division chiefs were perceived to be more supportive of resident pregnancy than in 2008. Surgical residents had lower perceptions of support compared with other specialties. Residents in programs with female leadership perceived a more supportive environment for pregnancy.   CONCLUSIONS Despite persisting negative stigma, residents across specialties report more support for pregnancy.
RATIONALE, AIMS AND OBJECTIVES Reducing the rate of hospital readmissions, particularly avoidable ones, has significant implications on patient outcomes, cost containment, and quality of care. Given that the reason of readmission may differ from the patient's main diagnosis in the index admission, this study aims to assess the influence of index comorbidities on the primary readmission diagnoses and explore the risk of deemed avoidable readmission because of prior comorbidities.   METHODS A retrospective review of 3962 discharges was conducted at a 527-bed teaching hospital in Jordan, utilizing data related to 2025 internal medicine patients.   RESULTS Among all discharges, 29% were followed by a 30-day readmission, of which 13% were identified as potentially avoidable. Of all readmissions, 36% of patients were readmitted because of one of the comorbidities that had been identified at index admission. In addition, 47% of the potentially avoidable readmissions had a main diagnosis that was one of the index comorbidities. The results also showed an association between readmission for one of the index stay's comorbidities and being avoidable, with an adjusted odds ratio of 2.12 (95% confidence interval, 1.65-2.72). Overall, the presence of certain diseases, being identified as one of the preceding comorbidities, was found to have a substantial influence on the risk of potentially avoidable readmission. These diseases included digestive, circulatory, respiratory, genitourinary systems, and infectious and parasitic diseases (adjusted relative risks혻=혻1.57, 1.49, 1.36, 1.30, and 2.30, respectively).   CONCLUSION To help reduce the rates of readmission, potential gains seem available if hospitals adopt clinical practices that support the patient's care during the post-discharge transition. This implies that health care providers need to pay more attention to the comorbidities of high-risk patients to be closely monitored after discharge.
Factors associated with the physician workload are scarcely reported. The study aims to investigate the associated factors of on-call physician workload based on a published conceptual framework.The study was conducted in a general internal medicine unit of National Taiwan University Hospital. On-call physician workloads were recorded on a shift basis from 1198 hospitalized patients between May 2010 and April 2011. The proxy of on-call workloads included night calls, bedside evaluation/management (E/M), and performing clinical procedures in a shift. Multivariable logistic and negative binomial regression models were used to determine the factors associated with the workloads of on-call physicians.During the study period, 378 (31.6%) of patients had night calls with related workloads. Multivariate analysis showed that the number of patients with unstable conditions in a shift (odds ratio [OR] 1.89 and 1.66, respectively) and the intensive care unit (ICU) training of the nurse leader (OR 2.87 and 3.08, respectively) resulted in higher likelihood of night calls to and bedside E/M visits by the on-call physician. However, ICU training of nurses (OR=0.37, 95% confidence interval: 0.16-0.86) decreased the demand of performing clinical procedures by the on-call physician. Moreover, number of patients with unstable conditions (risk ratio [RR] 1.52 and 1.55, respectively) had significantly increased the number of night calls and bedside E/M by on-call physicians by around 50%. Nurses with N1 level (RR 2.16 and 2.71, respectively) were more likely to place night calls and facilitate bedside E/M by the on-call physician compared to nurses with N0 level. In addition, the nurse leaders with ICU training (RR 1.72 and 3.07, respectively) had significant increases in night calls and bedside E/M by the on-call physician compared to those without ICU training.On-call physician workload is associated with patient factors and the training of nurses. Number of unstable patients in a shift may be considered in predicting workload. The training of nurses may improve patient safety and decrease demand for clinical procedure.
BACKGROUND The increase in access to healthcare through the Affordable Care Act highlights the need to track where women seek their office-based care. The objectives of this study were to examine the types of physicians sought by women beyond their customary reproductive years and before being elderly.   METHODS This retrospective cohort study involved an analysis of national data from the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS) between 2002 and 2012. Women between 45 and 64 years old (n=44,830) were interviewed, and reviews of corresponding office visits (n=330,114) were undertaken.   RESULTS In 2002, women aged 45-64 years (62%) went to a family or internal medicine physician only and this reached 72% in 2012. The percentage of women who went to an obstetrician-gynecologist (ob-gyn) only decreased from 20% in 2002 to 12% in 2012. Most went to a family physician or general internist for a general checkup or for diagnosis or treatment. By contrast, visits to ob-gyn physicians were predominantly for general checkups. Those who went to an ob-gyn office were more likely to have a higher family income, live in the Northeast, and describe their overall health as being excellent.   CONCLUSIONS Women aged 45-64 years were substantially more likely to obtain care exclusively at offices of family physicians or general internists than of ob-gyn physicians. Overlap in care provided at more than one physician's office requires continued surveillance in minimizing redundant cost and optimizing resource utilization.
BACKGROUND Residency programs have utilized Individualized Learning Plans (ILPs) to customize resident education while undergraduate medical education has not done so in a meaningful way. We discuss the use of ILPs within a fourth year medical school course to facilitate self-directed learning (SDL).   METHODS At Stony Brook University School of Medicine, an ILP component was added to the Advanced Clinical Experience (ACE) course for fourth year students. Each completed an ILP outlining personal learning goals and strategies to achieve them. An adaptation of the Motivated Strategies for Learning Questionnaire (MSLQ) (Duncan T and McKeachie W, Educ Psych 40(2):117-128, 2005 and Cook DA et al., Med Ed 45:1230-1240, 2011) was used to measure success of ILPs in improving SDL. Qualitative data analysis was conducted on the ILPs and self-reflections.   RESULTS Forty-eight students participated. Two of the four SDL sub-domains identified on the MSLQ showed improvement; self-efficacy (p=.001) and self-regulation (p=.002). 'Medical Knowledge' was the competency most frequently identified as an area of concentration (90혻%) and professionalism was selected least frequently (4혻%). A higher percentage (83혻%) of students who reported complete achievement of their ILP goals also reported feeling better prepared for entering residency.   CONCLUSIONS ILPs improve SDL strategies among medical students and may serve as useful tools to help shape future learning goals as they transition to residency training.
Background Little is known about how physician time is allocated in ambulatory care.   Objective To describe how physician time is spent in ambulatory practice.   Design Quantitative direct observational time and motion study (during office hours) and self-reported diary (after hours).   Setting U.S. ambulatory care in 4 specialties in 4 states (Illinois, New Hampshire, Virginia, and Washington).   Participants 57 U.S. physicians in family medicine, internal medicine, cardiology, and orthopedics who were observed for 430 hours, 21 of whom also completed after-hours diaries.   Measurements Proportions of time spent on 4 activities (direct clinical face time, electronic health record [EHR] and desk work, administrative tasks, and other tasks) and self-reported after-hours work.   Results During the office day, physicians spent 27.0% of their total time on direct clinical face time with patients and 49.2% of their time on EHR and desk work. While in the examination room with patients, physicians spent 52.9% of the time on direct clinical face time and 37.0% on EHR and desk work. The 21 physicians who completed after-hours diaries reported 1 to 2 hours of after-hours work each night, devoted mostly to EHR tasks.   Limitations Data were gathered in self-selected, high-performing practices and may not be generalizable to other settings. The descriptive study design did not support formal statistical comparisons by physician and practice characteristics.   Conclusion For every hour physicians provide direct clinical face time to patients, nearly 2 additional hours is spent on EHR and desk work within the clinic day. Outside office hours, physicians spend another 1 to 2 hours of personal time each night doing additional computer and other clerical work.   Primary Funding Source American Medical Association.
OBJECTIVE To investigate the knowledge and use of asthma control measurement (ACM) tools in the management of asthma among doctors working in family and internal medicine practice in Nigeria.   METHOD A questionnaire based on the global initiative on asthma (GINA) guideline was self-administered by 194 doctors. It contains 12 test items on knowledge of ACM tools and its application. The knowledge score was obtained by adding the correct answers and classified as good if the score  9, satisfactory if score was 6-8 and poor if < 6.   RESULTS The overall doctors knowledge score of ACM tools was 4.49짹2.14 (maximum of 12). Pulmonologists recorded the highest knowledge score of 10.75짹1.85. The majority (69.6%) had poor knowledge score of ACM tools. Fifty (25.8%) assessed their patients' level of asthma control and 34(17.5%) at every visit. Thirty-nine (20.1%) used ACM tools in their consultation, 29 (15.0%) of them used GINA defined control while 10 (5.2 %) used asthma control test (ACT). The use of the tools was associated with pulmonologists, having attended CME within six months and graduated within five years prior to the survey.   CONCLUSION The results highlight the poor knowledge and use of ACM tools and the need to address the knowledge gap.
Higher specialist training in general internal medicine (GIM) and the medical specialties has been subject to many changes and increasing subspecialisation in recent years. The 'Shape of Training' review proposes 'broad-based specialty training', shortening of training by one year, and subspecialisation to be undertaken after the certificate of specialty training is obtained. All higher level gastroenterology trainees based in the UK were invited to complete an online survey between July and September 2012 to assess their experience of gastroenterology and GIM training. Overall, 72.7% of trainees expressed satisfaction with their training in gastroenterology but significantly fewer (43.5%) expressed satisfaction with their training in GIM. Satisfaction with gastroenterology training thus is good, but satisfaction with GIM training is lower and levels of dissatisfaction have increased significantly since 2008. Up to 50% of trainees are not achieving the minimum recommended number of colonoscopy procedures for their stage of training. Experience in GIM is seen as service orientated, with a lack of training opportunities. There is a worrying difficulty in gaining the minimum required experience in endoscopy. If the length of specialist training is shortened and generalised, training in key core specialist skills such as endoscopy may be compromised further.
BACKGROUND The 'dying patient' law in Israel deals with end- of-life decisions.   AIM This prospective study evaluates the ability of internal medicine staff to assess the short-term prognosis of recently admitted patients.   METHODS During the period November 1st 2008 until January 6th 2009, the staff of the internal medicine wards received questionnaires regarding their recently admitted patients (up to 72 hours from the time of admission). The questionnaires included thestaff member's role assessment of each patient's prognosis for the next two weeks. Later, charts of the patients were examined for demographic data and outcome.   RESULTS Questionnaires regarding 599 patients were completed. The outcome was validated in 466 of these patients. Nurse's filled in 259 questionnaires, residents at early stage (before the first residency exam) completed 437, senior residents (after this exam] filled in 75 and senior/attending physicians filled in 329 patients' questionnaires. Overall, 69, patients died within 14 days. The sensitivity of assessment of short-term prognosis was low (0.38) but the specificity was very high (0.95). The positive predictive value was 0.61. Among physicians, the positive predictive value increased with seniority, but nurses had the highest positive predictive value scores (0.73). The negative predictive value was 0.89 without significant differences among the 4 studied groups.   CONCLUSIONS Internal medicine staff has limited capacity to accurately assess short-term prognosis of recently admitted patients.
BACKGROUND Gastrointestinal specialists depend on internal medicine (IM) teams to accurately identify acute gastrointestinal bleeding (GIB). We evaluated whether IM residents' assessment of GIB correlated with the impressions of GI specialists during consultations at an inner-city university teaching hospital.   METHODS A questionnaire was distributed to house staff requesting GIB consultations and to the GI fellows performing the consults between August 2011 and April 2012. Residents and fellows were asked to assess GIB, specifically melena, using a stool color card and digital rectal examination (DRE) findings. Fellow DRE findings served as controls for stool color identification.   RESULTS Eighty-seven GI consults were eligible for the study. Residents and fellows completed 81 and 86 questionnaires, respectively. A total of 76 questionnaires were included for analysis. A DRE was performed by medical staff before calling a consult in 65% of cases compared with fellows (97% of cases, P = 0.0001). Residents more frequently labeled stool as melena (42%) in patients as compared with fellows (12%, P = 0.0001). Residents inaccurately identified melenic stools in 22 patients (11 based on stool color and 11 based on DRE findings). Residents were more likely to label a consult as emergent than fellows (13.5% vs 4%, P < 0.05).   CONCLUSION Residents are less likely to perform DRE during an evaluation for GIB and to accurately identify melena based on stool color or DRE findings. There appears to be a need to educate residents on the appropriate terminology for stool color and the importance of DRE to accurately triage patients with acute GIBs.
CONTEXT The importance of an abnormal ionized calcium (iCa) measurement in noncritically ill patients is unclear. Furthermore, iCa monitoring is more expensive than measurement of total calcium and consumes more laboratory resources. We hypothesize that most iCa tests are ordered for routine monitoring in asymptomatic patients, and results do not influence clinical management.   OBJECTIVE To characterize and to intervene on iCa test-ordering practices among our institution's hospital-based internal medicine clinicians.   DESIGN A quality-improvement project, with retrospective review of clinical records. We retrospectively identified the first 100 consecutive patients admitted to our hospital internal medicine (HIM) services during January 2012 with an iCa test ordered during their hospitalization. We reviewed clinical records to determine the appropriateness of iCa test ordering and of the ordering department. An educational intervention regarding the appropriateness of iCa testing was undertaken targeting HIM clinicians.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES The effect of the intervention was assessed by identifying a sample of the first 100 consecutive patients admitted to HIM services during November 2012 and by comparing the proportion of iCa tests ordered by HIM clinicians before and after the intervention.   RESULTS HIM services were responsible for 38% of iCa measurements before the educational intervention, with the remainder originating primarily from the Emergency Department (29%) and intensive care units (28%). After the intervention, the internal medicine services were responsible for 13% of iCa measurements, which represented a 66% reduction (p = 0.0007).   CONCLUSION A simple intervention based on clinician education can reduce the frequency of routine iCa monitoring in stable hospitalized patients.
The pediatric syndrome characterized by periodic fever, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis, and cervical adenitis (PFAPA) and adult Beh챌et's disease share some clinical manifestations and are both polygenic autoinflammatory disorders with interleukin-1棺 showing to play a pivotal role. However, the diagnosis is mostly clinical and we hypothesize that specific criteria may be addressed differently by different physicians. To determine the diagnostic variability, we compared the answers of 80 patients with a definite diagnosis of Beh챌et's disease (age 42.1됀기13.7 years) obtained by separate telephone interviews conducted by a rheumatologist, a pediatrician, and an internist working largely in the field of autoinflammatory disorders. Questions were related to the age of symptom onset, the occurrence of recurrent fevers during childhood, and the association with oral aphthosis, cervical adenitis and/or pharyngitis, previous treatments, possible growth impairment, the time lapse between PFAPA-like symptoms and the onset of Beh챌et's disease, and the occurrence of Beh챌et-related manifestation during childhood. The rheumatologist identified 30 % of patients with Beh챌et's disease fulfilling PFAPA syndrome diagnostic criteria, compared to the pediatrician and the internist identifying 10 and 7.5 %, respectively. Most of the patients suffered from recurrent oral aphthosis in childhood also without fever (50, 39, and 48 % with each interviewer), yet no patient fulfilled the Beh챌et's disease diagnostic criteria. Our data suggest that physician awareness and expertise are central to the diagnosis of autoinflammatory disorders through an accurate collection of the medical history.
BACKGROUND Approximately one in six adults in the United States (U.S.) binge drinks. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends that primary care physicians screen patients for such hazardous alcohol use, and when warranted, deliver a brief intervention.   OBJECTIVE We aimed to determine primary care residents' current practices, perceived barriers and confidence with conducting alcohol screening and brief interventions (SBI).   DESIGN This was a multi-site, cross-sectional survey conducted from March 2010 through December 2012.   PARTICIPANTS We invited all residents in six primary care residency programs (three internal medicine programs and three family medicine programs) to participate. Of 244 residents, 210 completed the survey (response rate 86 %).   MAIN MEASURES Our survey assessed residents' alcohol screening practices (instruments used and frequency of screening), perceived barriers to discussing alcohol, brief intervention content, and self-rated ability to help hazardous drinkers. To determine the quality of brief interventions delivered, we examined how often residents reported including the three key recommended elements of feedback, advice, and goal-setting.   KEY RESULTS Most residents (60 %, 125/208) reported 'usually' or 'always' screening patients for alcohol misuse at the initial clinic visit, but few residents routinely screened patients at subsequent acute-care (17 %, 35/208) or chronic-care visits (33 %, 68/208). Only 19 % (39/210) of residents used screening instruments capable of detecting binge drinking. The most frequently reported barrier to SBI was lack of adequate training (54 %, 108/202), and only 21 % (43/208) of residents felt confident they could help at -risk drinkers. When residents did perform a brief intervention, only 24 % (49/208) 'usually' or 'always' included the three recommended elements.   CONCLUSIONS A minority of residents in this multi-site study appropriately screen or intervene with at-risk alcohol users. To equip residents to effectively address hazardous alcohol use, there is a critical need for educational and clinic interventions to support alcohol-related SBI.
BACKGROUND Depression is a known risk factor for vascular disease in community cohorts and in large, system-wide, health care databases. It is not known if the association between depression and incident vascular disease exists when patient data is restricted to depression presenting in primary care.   METHODS Data were from a medical record registry capturing all primary care encounters at a large academic medical practice from 2008 to 2013. From 27,225 registry patients, we identified 7383 patients free of vascular disease for 18 months prior to baseline. ICD-9-CM codes were used to define depression and vascular disease. Volume of health care use, demographics and comorbid diagnoses were obtained from the patient data registry. Cox proportional hazard models with time dependent covariates were computed to measure the association between depression and incident vascular disease before and after adjusting for covariates.   RESULTS Of the 7383 patients initially free of vascular disease, 14% were diagnosed with depression and 8.6% developed vascular disease. Incident vascular disease was significantly (P < 0.01) higher among patients with depression (12.7%) compared to those without depression (7.9%). In the unadjusted model, depression was associated with a 49% increased risk of developing vascular disease (odds ratio [OR] = 1.49; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.19-1.86) and this association remained significant after adjusting for all potential confounders (OR = 1.28; 95% CI: 1.02-1.62).   CONCLUSIONS The association between depression and incident vascular disease is observed in patients diagnosed and managed by primary care physicians. Primary care physicians have an opportunity to impact this association. Guidelines for primary care providers are needed to prompt aggressive depression treatment and vascular disease screening.
OBJECTIVE The objective of this study is to provide a solution to the critical care physician shortage.   DATA SOURCES The data sources are Medline search of published articles regarding the critical care physician shortage, the current training model, and the roll of family physicians.   DATA EXTRACTION The US population continues to age, increasing the need for critical care services due to the burden of acute and chronic illnesses. At the same time, it has been suggested that a highly staffed intensive care unit (ICU) including physicians, nurses, and pharmacists promotes standardized care that improves survival and length of stays (hospital and ICU). This has led to a rise in critical care physician staffing. Unfortunately, estimates indicate a shortage of critical care physicians over the next 10 years or even sooner if the Leapfrog initiative is implemented, making apparent the vulnerability of the field. Published estimates indicate that intensivists currently provide care to only 37% of all ICU patients in the United States and that they are located primarily in large hospitals and teaching institutions. Traditionally, to enter a fellowship in critical care, one would have to be trained through the internal medicine, anesthesia, or surgery pathways. Recently, the American Board of Emergency Medicine, in conjunction with The American Board of Internal Medicine, opened the pathway for emergency physicians to enter a critical care fellowship.   CONCLUSIONS Family Practice is the second largest collective group of physicians in the United States-second only to internal medicine. In most of rural America, where there are limited physicians serving the population, family practitioners fill the gap and provide services otherwise unavailable to those patients. This group that can potentially be trained in critical care and help solve the crisis has been prevented from doing so.
Hyponatremia is common in older people, most often of multifactorial origin, and can be associated with poor clinical outcomes. The aim was to analyze the frequency of severe hyponatremia (sodium concentration below 125 mmol/L), risk factors and mortality association in hospitalized older patients. A retrospective study was performed in older patients (over 65 years) with hyponatremia, diagnosed at admission in an Internal Medicine Department during one year. A control group of 127 older patients without hyponatremia was considered. Statistical analysis of the data gathered was made with SPSS Statistics 20. The main results were: a group of 1060 patients with age superior to 65 years was identified (representing 72.26% of total admissions); incidence of hyponatremia in those patients was 27.55% and severe hyponatremia was 5.94%; diagnosis of hyponatremia was mentioned in the discharge note in 66.67% of cases; mortality was 27.0%, against 16.0% in the control group (p=0.057, Odds Ratio (OR)=1.940); drugs were a significant risk factor (p<0.001), specially thiazide diuretics (p=0.029, OR=2.774), angiotensin receptor blockers (ARB) (p=0.001, OR=4.097), proton-pump inhibitors (PPI) (p=0.007, OR=2.561) and spironolactone (p=0.011, OR=4.473); other relevant risk factors were: increased water intake (p=0.004), tube feeding (p<0.001), vomiting (p=0.032, OR=2.492), cirrhosis (p=0.008, OR=10.862) and hyperhidrosis (p=0.017, OR=2.542). We conclude that, although this group of patients had a high mortality, hyponatremia is often not investigated and not always mentioned as a diagnosis. Clinicians should have a clear appreciation of the roles that iatrogenic interventions and lapses in nutrition frequently play in upsetting the homeostatic balance in older patients.
During their studies to become medical professionals, all students are obliged to become familiar with various aspects of primary care. The aim is to provide all students with a high quality training which ensures the best possible cooperation across all sectors of the medical system. Primary care comprises the primary use of the medical service by an unfiltered set of patients as well as continued patient care--including home-care. This position paper was developed together with representatives of the German Society of University Teachers of General Practice (GHA), the German Society for Ambulatory General Paediatrics (DGAAP), the German Society of General Practice and Family Medicine (DEGAM) and the German Society for Internal Medicine (DGIM). It includes recommendations for teaching in the field of primary care in four different types of internships such as preclinical work experience ('Hospitation'), 4-week clinical traineeships of a casual nature ('Famulatur') and 2-week courses of structured and assessed clinical training ('Blockpraktikum') as well as a broad-based 4-month elective clinical placement in the final year (known as a practical year, 'PJ'). The recommendations encompass structural and process criteria for internships in different general practices. In addition, for the first time recommendations for teaching on campus--in the fields of general medicine, paediatrics, numerous cross-sectional areas and other clinical fields, but also for clinical skills training--are set down here. In this position paper the intention is to demonstrate the possible ways in which more aspects of primary care could be integrated into undergraduate medical training.
Troponin testing is an essential component of our diagnostic approach to patients in acute medical care settings. With the advent of high-sensitivity troponin assays, its importance will extend to patients in chronic disease settings. Although elevated troponin levels provide diagnostic information, inform treatment decisions, and influence patient prognosis, proper interpretation of the values is essential. This requires an understanding of the operating characteristics of troponin testing; the likelihood ratios associated with a positive/negative test result and the pre- and post-test probabilities related to individual clinical settings. These principles will become more important as high-sensitivity assays become introduced over the coming years in the United States. This article reviews the important principles of troponin testing focusing in particular on acute settings and is aimed at internal medicine and hospital specialists.
BACKGROUND During the four-month internal medicine clerkship in their final year, undergraduate medical students are closely involved in patient care. Little is known about what constitutes their typical learning experiences with respect to patient diversity within the different subspecialties of internal medicine and during on call hours.   METHODS 25 final year medical students (16 female, 9 male) on their internal medicine clerkship participated in this observational single-center study. To detail the patient diversity encountered by medical students at a university hospital during their 16-week internal medicine clerkship, all participants self-reported their patient contacts in the different subspecialties and during on call hours on patient encounter cards. Patients' chief complaint, suspected main diagnosis, planned diagnostic investigations, and therapy in seven different internal medicine subspecialties and the on call medicine service were documented.   RESULTS 496 PECs were analysed in total. The greatest diversity of chief complaints (CC) and suspected main diagnoses (SMD) was observed in patients encountered on call, with the combined frequencies of the three most common CCs or SMDs accounting for only 23% and 25%, respectively. Combined, the three most commonly encountered CC/SMD accounted for high percentages (82%/63%), i.e. less diversity, in oncology and low percentages (37%/32%), i.e. high diversity, in nephrology. The percentage of all diagnostic investigations and therapies that were classified as 'basic' differed between the subspecialties from 82%/94% (on call) to 37%/50% (pulmonology/oncology). The only subspecialty with no significant difference compared with on call was nephrology for diagnostic investigations. With respect to therapy, nephrology and infectious diseases showed no significant differences compared with on call.   CONCLUSIONS Internal medicine clerkships at a university hospital provide students with a very limited patient diversity in most internal medicine subspecialties. Shadowing the on call resident or shorter rotations could provide a more extended patient diversity.
PURPOSE To compare procedure-specific checklists and a global rating scale in assessing technical competence.   METHOD Two trained raters used procedure-specific checklists and a global rating scale to independently evaluate 218 video-recorded performances of six bedside procedures of varying complexity for technical competence. The procedures were completed by 47 residents participating in a formative simulation-based objective structured clinical examination at the University of Calgary in 2011. Pass/fail (competent/not competent) decisions were based on an overall global assessment item on the global rating scale. Raters provided written comments on performances they deemed not competent. Checklist minimum passing levels were set using traditional standard-setting methods.   RESULTS For each procedure, the global rating scale demonstrated higher internal reliability and lower interrater reliability than the checklist. However, interrater reliability was almost perfect for decisions on competence using the overall global assessment (Kappa range: 0.84-1.00). Clinically significant procedural errors were most often cited as reasons for ratings of not competent. Using checklist scores to diagnose competence demonstrated acceptable discrimination: The area under the curve ranged from 0.84 (95% CI 0.72-0.97) to 0.93 (95% CI 0.82-1.00). Checklist minimum passing levels demonstrated high sensitivity but low specificity for diagnosing competence.   CONCLUSIONS Assessment using a global rating scale may be superior to assessment using a checklist for evaluation of technical competence. Traditional standard-setting methods may establish checklist cut scores with too-low specificity: High checklist scores did not rule out incompetence. The role of clinically significant errors in determining procedural competence should be further evaluated.
BACKGROUND People with HIV are living longer and their care has shifted towards the prevention and management of comorbidities. However, little is known about who is providing their care. Our objective was to characterize the provision of HIV care in Ontario by physician specialty.   METHODS We conducted a retrospective population-based observational study using linked administrative databases in Ontario, Canada, a single payer health care system. All Ontarians with HIV were identified using a validated case ascertainment algorithm. We examined office-based health care visits for this cohort between April 1, 2009 and March 31, 2012. Physician characteristics were compared between specialty groups. We stratified the frequency and distribution of physician care into three categories: (a) care by physician specialty (family physicians, internal medicine specialists, infectious disease specialists, and other specialists), (b) care based on physician caseload (low, medium or high categorized as 5, 6-49 or 50 HIV patients per physician), and (c) care that is related to HIV versus unrelated to HIV.   RESULTS Family physicians were older, graduated earlier, were more often female, and were the only group practicing in rural settings. Unlike other specialists, most family physicians (76.8%) had low-volume caseloads. There were 406,411 outpatient visits made by individuals with HIV; one-third were for HIV care. Family physicians provided the majority of care (53.6% of all visits and 53.9% of HIV visits). Internal medicine specialists provided 4.9% of all visits and 9.6% of HIV visits. Infectious disease specialists provided 12.5% of all visits and 32.7% of HIV visits. Other specialties provided 29.0% of visits; most of these (33.0%) were to psychiatrists.   CONCLUSIONS The distribution of visits to physicians caring for HIV patients reveals different patterns of health care delivery by specialty and HIV caseload. Further research should delineate how specialties share care for this population and how different patterns relate to quality of care.
BACKGROUND July 2011 saw the implementation of the newest duty hour restrictions, further limiting the working hours of first year residents and necessitating a variety of adaptations on the part of residency programs. The present study sought to characterize the perceived impact of these restrictions on residency program personnel using a multi-specialty and multi-site approach.   METHODS We developed and administered a survey to internal medicine and general surgery residency programs at three academic medical centers within an urban region. The survey combined quantitative and qualitative components to gain a broader understanding of the impact of the newest regulations. Quantitative responses were compared between Internal Medicine and General Surgery programs with Student t-tests. Other comparisons were performed using ANOVA or Kruskal-Wallis testing as appropriate. For all comparisons, the threshold for significance was set at 0.01. Two independent reviewers coded all qualitative data and assigned one or more themes based on content. Descriptive statistics were calculated and the diversity of themes identified. No between-group comparisons were conducted with the qualitative data.   RESULTS We found significant differences in the overall perceptions of duty hour restrictions across specialty (internal medicine more positive than general surgery) and across position (first year residents more positive than senior residents and faculty). Notably, individuals who trained at osteopathic medical schools reported significantly more negative views of the duty hour restrictions than those who had trained at allopathic or international medical schools, suggesting an influence of undergraduate medical training. The complementary qualitative data offered insights into the perceived strengths and weaknesses of the duty hour restrictions, as well as actionable suggestions that could help to improve residency program function.   CONCLUSION This study characterizes responses to the new duty hour restrictions from a variety of perspectives. Our findings show that individual (type of undergraduate medical education, role in graduate medical education) and program-wide (e.g., specialty) factors contribute to participant satisfaction with DHR. This research highlights the value of a mixed methods approach in the study of duty hour restrictions, with our qualitative arm yielding rich data that complemented and expanded upon the insights derived from the quantitative data.
BACKGROUND We aimed to explore the influence of a motivationally-enhanced instructional design on motivation to learn and knowledge, hypothesizing that outcomes would be higher for the enhanced instructional format.   METHODS Medicine residents completed four online learning modules on primary care topics. Using a crossover design, learners were randomized to receive two standard and two motivationally-enhanced learning modules. Both formats had self-assessment questions, but the enhanced format questions were framed to place learners in a supervisory/teaching role. Learners received a baseline motivation questionnaire, a short motivation survey before and after each module, and a knowledge posttest.   RESULTS One hundred twenty seven residents were randomized. 123 residents (97%) completed at least one knowledge posttest and 119 (94%) completed all four posttests. Across all modules, a one-point increase in the pretest short motivation survey was associated with a 2.1-point increase in posttest knowledge. The change in motivation was significantly higher for the motivationally enhanced format (standard mean change -0.01, enhanced mean change +0.09, difference=0.10, CI 0.001 to 0.19; p=0.048). Mean posttest knowledge score was similar (standard mean 72.8, enhanced mean 73.0, difference=0.2, CI -1.9 to 2.1; p=0.90).   CONCLUSIONS The motivationally enhanced instructional format improved motivation more than the standard format, but impact on knowledge scores was small and not statistically significant. Learners with higher pre-intervention motivation scored better on post-intervention knowledge tests, suggesting that motivation may prove a viable target for future instructional enhancements.
PURPOSE There is wide variability in how attending physician roles on teaching teams, including patient care and trainee learning, are enacted. This study sought to better understand variability by considering how different attendings configured and rationalized direct patient care, trainee oversight, and teaching activities.   METHOD Constructivist grounded theory guided iterative data collection and analyses. Data were interviews with 24 attending physicians from two academic centers in Ontario, Canada, in 2012. During interviews, participants heard a hypothetical presentation and reflected on it as though it were presented to their team during a typical admission case review.   RESULTS Four supervisory styles were identified: direct care, empowerment, mixed practice, and minimalist. Driven by concerns for patient safety, direct care involves delegating minimal patient care responsibility to trainees. Focused on supporting trainees' progressive independence, empowerment uses teaching and oversight strategies to ensure quality of care. In mixed practice, patient care is privileged over teaching and is adjusted on the basis of trainee competence and contextual features such as patient volume. Minimalist style involves a high degree of trust in senior residents, delegating most patient care, and teaching to them. Attendings rarely discussed their styles with the team.   CONCLUSIONS The model adds to the literature on variability in supervisory practice, showing that the four styles reflect different ways of responding to tensions in the role and context. This model could be refined through observational research exploring the impact of context on style development and enactment. Making supervisory styles explicit could support improvement of team competence.
PURPOSE Performing and teaching appropriate follow-up of outpatient laboratory results (LRs) is a challenge. The authors tested peer-review among residents as a potentially valuable intervention.   METHOD Investigators assigned residents to perform self-review (n = 27), peer-review (n = 21), or self- + peer-review (n = 30) of outpatient charts. They also compared residence performance with that of historical controls (n = 20). In September 2012, residents examined 10 LRs from April 2012 onward. A second review in November 2012 ascertained whether performing chart review improved residents' practice behaviors.   RESULTS Initially, the least-square (LS) mean number of LRs without documentation of follow-up per resident in the self-, peer-, and self- + peer-review group was, respectively, 0.5 (SD 1.0), 1.0 (SD 1.7), and 0.9 (SD 1.3), and post intervention, this was 1.0 (SD 0.2), 0.3 (SD 0.2), and 0.6 (SD 0.2) (self- versus peer-review P = .03). Initially the LS mean follow-up time per resident in the self-, peer-, and self- + peer-review group was, respectively, 4.2 (SD 1.2), 6.9 (SD 1.4), and 5.9 (SD 1.2) days, and after the intervention, LS mean time was 5.0 (SD 0.5), 2.5 (SD 0.6), and 3.9 (SD 0.5) days (self- versus peer-review P < .01). Self-review was not associated with significant improvements in practice.   CONCLUSIONS In this comparison of self- and peer-review, only residents who performed peer-review demonstrated significant improvements in their documentation practices. These findings support the use of resident peer-review in improving LR follow-up, and potentially, in other, broader resident quality improvement initiatives.
Curriculum development in medical education should follow a planned, systematic approach fitted to the needs and conditions of a local institutional environment and its learners. This article describes the development and maintenance of a simulation-based medical education curriculum on advanced cardiac life support skills and its transformation to a mastery learning program. Curriculum development used the Kern 6-step model involving problem identification and general needs assessment, targeted needs assessment, goals and objectives, educational strategies, implementation, and evaluation and feedback. Curriculum maintenance and enhancement and dissemination are also addressed. Transformation of the simulation-based medical education curriculum to a mastery learning program was accomplished after a 2-year phase-in trial. A series of studies spanning 11 years was performed to adjust the curriculum, improve checklist outcome measures, and evaluate curriculum effects as learning outcomes among internal medicine residents and improved patient care practices. We anticipate wide adoption of the mastery learning model for skill and knowledge acquisition and maintenance in medical education settings.
The MOOC In The Heart of Hypertension is an innovative online training for students and health providers. Its aim is to strengthen skills for professionals caring people suffering from hypertension. A MOOC is a free online training aiming unlimited participation. It widely promotes a high quality education. Medical and paramedical training recently seized upon this powerful tool, for initial and continuing training. Indeed, MOOC responds to several pedagogic challenges, particularly through educational strategies focused on the learner's skills: mastery of pedagogy, retrieval practice and peer grading. This MOOC about hypertension aims at responding to the needs of caregivers to enhance their therapeutic support skills.
Since the middle of the 19th century insurance medicine has played a role in medical risk assessment and underwriting for insurance applications, and since the beginning of the 20th century medical professionals have been assisting social insurance institutions with claims adjustments. However, insurance medicine has not yet become firmly established within the medical community. This may to a large extent be related to the fact that insurance medicine is not in itself curative and therefore tends to be sidelined by clinical subjects, while little or no teaching time is dedicated to the topic during basic and advanced training. A few institutions do offer training on the topic, although this is generally limited to the respective arrangements for claims and risk assessment. These factors result in insurance medicine being treated as a fragmented subject with no clear or consistent definitions, leaving it devoid of identity. This article begins by tracing the broad outlines of the history of insurance medicine, before offering a comprehensive definition and description of insurance medicine and providing information on the existing training opportunities and institutions concerned with insurance medicine.
Sarcoidosis is a granulomatous disease that mainly affects the lungs and intrathoracic lymph nodes; however, virtually any organ can be affected. As an orphan disease, recommendations are mainly based on observational or small randomized studies as well as experts' opinion. Diagnosing sarcoidosis requires proof of non-necrotizing granulomas in patients with a compatible symptomatic pattern and the exclusion of other granulomatous diseases. Granulomas can be detected best in the lungs or intrathoracic lymph nodes. Therefore, bronchoscopy and endobronchial ultrasound with biopsies of lymph nodes are the major tools to diagnose sarcoidosis. Frequently, close follow-up and symptomatic therapy are sufficient to allow for spontaneous resolution. In case of functional organ impairment, cardial or CNS involvement, or other complications, steroid therapy is necessary with a starting dose of 0.5 mg/kg body weight that should be tapered-off over 6-12 months. Steroid-refractory disease can be treated by adding methotrexate or azathioprine, two drugs long known in sarcoidosis treatment. Monoclonal antibodies against TNF and lung transplantation are further therapeutic options.
OBJECTIVES To describe the clinical characteristics of a series of patients presenting conversion disorder in a general internal medicine ward and outpatient clinic, the arguments retained by the physicians in favour of the diagnosis, the somatic and psychiatric co-morbidities, the management and the outcome of the disorder.   METHODS We report the study of 37 patients diagnosed with conversion disorder in an internal medicine department of a French university hospital over a period of 14 years. We retrospectively reviewed the charts of the patients and contacted their primary care physicians to obtain follow-up data. No structured instrument was used for the diagnosis of conversion disorder or for the assessment of psychiatric comorbidities.   RESULTS As expected, patients were mostly young females, although a great variety of age, gender, and socio-cultural background was observed. Motor symptoms predominated (62%). A relevant psychogenic factor was explicitly mentioned in only 43% of the cases. In many cases, organic disease was also present, and an organic cause for the symptom initially considered as conversion was suspected in 3 cases. Depressive and anxious disorders were present respectively in 38% and 35% of cases. A pain complaint was associated in half of the cases. Among patients for whom follow-up data is available, conversion symptoms persisted or recurred in 70% of cases and were associated with a poor quality of life.   CONCLUSION This case series confirms that the DSM-IV-TR criterion of 'psychogenicity' (later abandoned in DSM-5) is highly problematic in clinical practice. It suggests a close relationship between conversion disorder and unexplained chronic pain.
BACKGROUND The National Institutes of Health (NIH) recommend that health materials be written at a grade 6-7 reading level, which has generally not been achieved in online reading materials. Up to the present time, there have not been any assessments focused on the reading level of online educational materials across the most popular consumer Web sites for common internal medicine diagnoses. In this study, we examined the readability of open-access online health information for 9 common internal medicine diagnoses.   METHODS Nine of the most frequently encountered inpatient and ambulatory internal medicine diagnoses were selected for analysis. In November and December 2014, these diagnoses were used as search terms in Google, and the top 5 Web sites across all diagnoses and a diagnosis-specific site were analyzed across 5 validated reading indices.   RESULTS On average, the lowest reading grade-level content was provided by the NIH (10.7), followed by WebMD (10.9), Mayo Clinic (11.3), and diagnosis-specific Web sites (11.5). Conversely, Wikipedia provided content that required the highest grade-level readability (14.6). The diagnoses with the lowest reading grade levels were chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (10.8), followed by diabetes (10.9), congestive heart failure (11.7), osteoporosis (11.7) and hypertension (11.7). Depression had the highest grade-level readability (13.8).   DISCUSSION Despite recommendations for patient health information to be written at a grade 6-7 reading level, our examination of online educational materials pertaining to 9 common internal medicine diagnoses revealed reading levels significantly above the NIH recommendation. This was seen across both diagnosis-specific and general Web sites. There is a need to improve the readability of online educational materials made available to patients. These improvements have the potential to greatly enhance patient awareness, engagement, and physician-patient communication.
The death of the donor is a mandatory prerequisite for organ transplantation (dead donor rule) worldwide. It is a medical, legal and ethical consensus to accept the concept of brain death, as first proposed in 1968 by the ad hoc committee of the Harvard Medical School, as a certain criterion of death. In isolated cases where the diagnosis of brain death was claimed to be wrong, it could be demonstrated that the diagnostic procedure for brain death had not been correctly performed. In March 2014 a joint statement by the German neuromedical societies emphasized that 1) the diagnosis of brain death is one of the safest diagnoses in medicine if performed according to accepted medical standards and criteria and 2) the concept of non-heart-beating donors (NHBD, i.뎓. organ donation after an arbitrarily defined duration of circulatory and cardiac arrest) practiced in some European countries must be absolutely rejected because it implicates a high risk of diagnostic error. According to the current literature it is unclear at what time cardiac and circulatory arrest is irreversible and leads to irreversible cessation of all functions of the entire brain including the brainstem, even though clinical signs of cessation of brain functions are always found after 10혻min. Furthermore, is it often an arbitrary decision to exactly define the duration of cardiac arrest if continuous echocardiographic monitoring has not been carried out from the very beginning. Last but not least there are ethical concerns against the concept of NHBD because it might influence therapeutic efforts to resuscitate a patient with cardiac arrest. Therefore, the German Medical Council (B횆K) has repeatedly rejected the concept of NHBD for organ transplantation since 1995.
PURPOSE Management of giant cell arteritis (GCA, Horton's disease) involves many uncertainties. This work was undertaken to establish French recommendations for GCA management.   METHODS Recommendations were developed by a multidisciplinary panel of 33 physicians, members of the French Study Group for Large Vessel Vasculitis (Groupe d'챕tude fran챌ais des art챕rites des gros vaisseaux [GEFA]). The topics to be addressed, selected from proposals by group members, were assigned to subgroups to summarize the available literature and draft recommendations. Following an iterative consensus-seeking process that yielded consensus recommendations, the degree of agreement among panel members was evaluated with a 5-point Likert scale. A recommendation was approved when  80% of the voters agreed or strongly agreed.   RESULTS The 15 retained topics resulted in 31 consensus recommendations focusing on GCA nomenclature and classification, the role of temporal artery biopsy and medical imaging in the diagnosis, indications and search modalities for involvement of the aorta and its branches, the glucocorticoid regimen to prescribe, treatment of complicated GCA, indications for use of immunosuppressants or targeted biologic therapies, adjunctive treatment measures, and management of relapse and recurrence.   CONCLUSIONS The recommendations, which will be updated regularly, are intended to guide and harmonize the standards of GCA management.
OBJECTIVES To carry out a pilot study aimed: a) to define and validate a method to evaluate Health Care Workers' (HCWs') knowledge about Ebola virus disease (EVD); b) to verify if the specific training on EVD followed in Emergency Units is associated to a significant difference in knowledge.   METHODS A cross-sectional study was carried out using an 'ad hoc' questionnaire. It included 20 statements true/false, divided into three areas: risk of transmission (T); prevention and personal protection (PPP); environmental prevention (EP). The targets were the HCWs of Emergency Unit (trained) and Internal Medicine Units (control) of two hospitals in Rome (A and B). Internal consistency was evaluated using KR-20 coefficient. A proportion of 14/20 (70%) correct answers was considered acceptable. Mean scores and acceptable scores were compared using t-Student test and chi-squared test respectively. A logistic regression was fitted to identify independent factors associated with acceptable knowledge level for the whole questionnaire and each area.   RESULTS 237 HCWs were included in the pilot study, with a participation percentage of 89.1%. The reliability coefficient (KR-20) was 0.6 for the entire 20-item questionnaire. Overall proportion of respondents with acceptable score was 32.9%; the highest proportion (61.1%) was found in trained HCWs (p<0.02). Factors associated with an acceptable knowledge were: belonging to hospital A (p<0.001) and having been trained on EVD (p=0.03). Stratifying by area, the variables significantly related to an acceptable score were: for PPP area younger HCWs (p<0.01) and nurses (p<0.01); for EP area, belonging to hospital A (p<0.01) and to Internal Medicine Unit (p=0.02).   CONCLUSIONS The high compliance and completeness of the responses indicate the validity of the method of administration adopted. In the investigated hospitals the specific training on EVD determined a significant overall improvement in knowledge. It will be appropriate to extend the study to other hospitals around the Country to evaluate the true effectiveness of the training in a larger sample of hospitals.
BACKGROUND Classroom lectures are the mainstay of imparting knowledge in a structured manner and have the additional goals of stimulating critical thinking, lifelong learning, and improvements in patient care. The impact of lectures on patient care is difficult to examine in critical care because of the heterogeneity in patient conditions and personnel as well as confounders such as time pressure, interruptions, fatigue, and nonstandardized observation methods.   METHODS The critical care environment was recreated in a simulation laboratory using a high-fidelity mannequin simulator, where a mannequin simulator with a standardized script for septic shock was presented to trainees. The reproducibility of this patient and associated conditions allowed the evaluation of 'clinical performance' in the management of septic shock. In a previous study, we developed and validated tools for the quantitative analysis of house staff managing septic shock simulations. In the present analysis, we examined whether measures of clinical performance were improved in those cases where a lecture on the management of shock preceded a simulated exercise on the management of septic shock. The administration of the septic shock simulations allowed for performance measurements to be calculated for both medical interns and for subsequent management by a larger resident-led team.   RESULTS The analysis revealed that receiving a lecture on shock before managing a simulated patient with septic shock did not produce scores higher than for those who did not receive the previous lecture. This result was similar for both interns managing the patient and for subsequent management by a resident-led team.   CONCLUSIONS We failed to find an immediate impact on clinical performance in simulations of septic shock after a lecture on the management of this syndrome. Lectures are likely not a reliable sole method for improving clinical performance in the management of complex disease processes.
BACKGROUND Major transformations within the German healthcare system (e. g. implementation of the G-DRG system, growing focus on economic aspects, demographic changes) led to changes of work and training conditions of young internists and to criticism and dissatisfaction. So far, there is a lack of up-to-date and nationwide data analyzing these issues with focus on economic pressure and psychosocial strain.   METHODS The young internists of the two professional bodies conducted an online-based survey addressing all their members in training. The questionnaire covers five central areas of conflict. Furthermore, the model of effort-reward-imbalance (ERI) was applied to measure psychosocial strain at work.   RESULTS 1696 internists in training participated in the survey. Workdays characterized by high pace and workload do not leave much room for professional training as well as for family and research friendly working conditions. A relevant part of the affected physicians draws or at least considers personal consequences. Economical pressure is clearly noticeable. Psychosocial strain among the questioned internists is very high and conveys a risk for physicians' health and patients' quality of care.   CONCLUSION Adjustments of working and training conditions in internal medicine are necessary to preserve physicians health, high-quality medical treatment and to ensure an attractive working environment.
BACKGROUND Internal medicine residents are frequently called upon to provide palliative care to hospitalized patients, but report feeling unprepared to do so effectively. Curricular development to enhance residents' palliative care skills and competencies requires an understanding of current beliefs, attitudes and learning priorities.   METHODS We conducted a qualitative study consisting of semi-structured interviews with ten internal medicine residents to explore their understanding of and experiences with palliative care.   RESULTS All of the residents interviewed had a sound theoretical understanding of palliative care, but faced many challenges in being able to provide care in practice. The challenges described by residents were system-related, patient-related and provider-related. They identified several priority areas for further learning, and discussed ways in which their current education in palliative care could be enhanced.   CONCLUSIONS Our findings provide important insights to guide curricular development for internal medicine trainees. The top five learning priorities in palliative care that residents identified in our study were: 1) knowing how and when to initiate a palliative approach, 2) improving communication skills, 3) improving symptom management skills, 4) identifying available resources, and 5) understanding the importance of palliative care. Residents felt that their education in palliative care could be improved by having a mandatory rotation in palliative care, more frequent didactic teaching sessions, more case-based teaching from palliative care providers, opportunities to be directly observed, and increased support from palliative care providers after-hours.
Continuous increase of elderly patients with multimorbidity and Emergency Department (ED) overcrowding are great challenges for modern medicine. Traditional hospital organizations are often too rigid to solve them without consistently rising healthcare costs. In this paper we present a new organizational model achieved at Internal Medicine and Critical Subacute Care Unit of Parma University Hospital, Italy, a 106-bed internal medicine area organized by intensity of care and specifically dedicated to such patients. The unit is partitioned into smaller wards, each with a specific intensity level of care, including a rapid-turnover ward (mean length of stay <4혻days) admitting acutely ill patients from the ED, a subacute care ward for chronic critically ill subjects and a nurse-managed ward for stable patients who have socio-economic trouble preventing discharge. A very-rapid-turnover ('come'n'go') ward has also been instituted to manage sudden ED overflows. Continuity, effectiveness, safety and appropriateness of care are guaranteed by an innovative figure called 'flow manager,' with skilled clinical experience and managerial attitude, and by elaboration of an early personalized discharge plan anticipating every patient's needs according to lean methodology principles. In 2012-2014, this organizational model, compared with other peer units of the hospital and of other teaching hospitals of the region, showed a better performance, efficacy and effectiveness indexes calculated on Regional Hospital Discharge Records database system, allowing a capacity to face a massive (+22혻%) rise in medical admissions from the ED. Further studies are needed to validate this model from a patient outcome point of view.
BACKGROUND The main factor that determines the selection of a medical specialty in Spain after obtaining a medical degree is the MIR ('m챕dico interno residente', internal medical resident) exam. This exam consists of 235 multiple-choice questions with five options, some of which include images provided in a separate booklet. The aim of this study was to analyze the technical quality of the multiple-choice questions included in the MIR exam over the last five years.   METHODS All the questions included in the exams from 2009 to 2013 were analyzed. We studied the proportion of questions including clinical vignettes, the number of items related to an image and the presence of technical flaws in the questions. For the analysis of technical flaws, we adapted the National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME) guidelines. We looked for 18 different issues included in the manual, grouped into two categories: issues related to testwiseness and issues related to irrelevant difficulties.   RESULTS The final number of questions analyzed was 1,143. The percentage of items based on clinical vignettes increased from 50% in 2009 to 56-58% in the following years (2010-2013). The percentage of items based on an image increased progressively from 10% in 2009 to 15% in 2012 and 2013. The percentage of items with at least one technical flaw varied between 68 and 72%. We observed a decrease in the percentage of items with flaws related to testwiseness, from 30% in 2009 to 20% in 2012 and 2013. While most of these issues decreased dramatically or even disappeared (such as the imbalance in the correct option numbers), the presence of non-plausible options remained frequent. With regard to technical flaws related to irrelevant difficulties, no improvement was observed; this is especially true with respect to negative stem questions and 'hinged' questions.   CONCLUSION The formal quality of the MIR exam items has improved over the last five years with regard to testwiseness. A more detailed revision of the items submitted, checking systematically for the presence of technical flaws, could improve the validity and discriminatory power of the exam, without increasing its difficulty.
UNLABELLED CONSTRUCT: This study examines validity evidence of end-of-rotation evaluation scores used to measure competencies and milestones as part of the Next Accreditation System (NAS) of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).   BACKGROUND Since the implementation of the milestones, end-of-rotation evaluations have surfaced as a potentially useful assessment method. However, validity evidence on the use of rotation evaluation scores as part of the NAS has not been studied. This article examines validity evidence for end-of-rotation evaluations that can contribute to developing guidelines that support the NAS.   APPROACH Data from 2,701 end-of-rotation evaluations measuring 21 out of 22 Internal Medicine milestones for 142 residents were analyzed (July 2013-June 2014). Descriptive statistics were used to measure the distribution of ratings by evaluators (faculty, n = 116; fellows, n = 59; peer-residents, n = 131), by postgraduate years. Generalizability analysis and higher order confirmatory factor analysis were used to examine the internal structure of ratings. Psychometric implications for combining evaluation scores using composite score reliability were examined.   RESULTS Milestone ratings were significantly higher for each subsequent year of training (15/21 milestones). Faculty evaluators had greater variability in ratings across milestones, compared to fellows and residents; faculty ratings were generally correlated with milestone ratings from fellows (r = .45) and residents (r = .25), but lower correlations were found for Professionalism and Interpersonal and Communication Skills. The 過-coefficient was .71, indicating good reliability. Internal structure supported a 6-factor solution, corresponding to the hierarchical relationship between the milestones and the 6 core competencies. Evaluation scores corresponding to Patient Care, Medical Knowledge, and Practice-Based Learning and Improvement had higher correlations to milestones reported to the ACGME. Mean evaluation ratings predicted problem residents (odds ratio = 5.82, p < .001).   CONCLUSIONS Guidelines for rotation evaluations proposed in this study provide useful solutions that can help program directors make decisions on resident progress and contribute to assessment systems in graduate medical education.
OBJECTIVE The General Internal Medicine (GIM) Care Transformation Initiative implemented at one of four teaching hospitals in the same city resulted in improved efficiency of in-hospital care. Whether it had beneficial effects upstream in the emergency department (ED) is unclear.   METHODS Controlled before-after study of ED length of stay (LOS) and crowding metrics for the intervention site (n = 108,951 visits) compared to the three other teaching hospitals (controls, n = 300,930 visits). Our primary outcome was ED LOS for GIM patients but secondary outcomes included ED LOS for all adults and ED crowding metrics.   RESULTS The GIM Care Transformation was associated with an additional 2.8-hour reduction in median ED LOS (from 25.6 hours to 13.5 hours) over and above the 9.3-hour decline (from 30.6 hours to 21.3 hours) seen in the three control EDs for GIM patients who were hospitalized (p < 0.001). As less than one in 30 ED visits resulted in a GIM ward admission, the median ED LOS for all patients declined by 15 minutes (from 4.6 hours to 4.3 hours, p < 0.001) in the control hospitals and by 30 minutes (from 5.7 hours to 5.1 hours, p < 0.001) at the intervention hospital pre versus post (p = 0.04 for the 15-minute additional reduction, p < 0.001 for level change on interrupted time series). Other metrics of ED crowding improved by similar amounts at the intervention and control hospitals with no statistically significant differences.   CONCLUSION Although the GIM Care Transformation Initiative was associated with substantial reductions in ED LOS for patients admitted to GIM wards at the intervention hospital, it resulted in only minor changes in overall ED LOS and no appreciable changes in ED crowding metrics.
INTRODUCTION Monitoring patients with heart failure by telemedicine systems is a potential means susceptible to optimize the management of these patients and avoid life-threatening emergencies. In this context, we experimented in internal medicine unit an e-platform E-care dedicated to automated, intelligent detection of situations at risk of heart failure.   METHODS The E-care platform based on medical sensors (blood pressure, heart rate, O2, weight), communicating (Bluetooth), to go up, in real time, to an intelligent physiological information and an analysis of the ontology medical, leading ultimately to the generation of alerts. After a development phase (proof of concept), the E-care platform has been deployed and tested by health professionals and patients in an internal medicine unit with 20 beds, opened on emergencies to the Strasbourg University Hospitals.   RESULTS One hundred and eighty patients were included and 1500 measurements were obtained. The patient profile included in this experiment was an elderly patient, with comorbidity in 90% of cases, with a loss of autonomy in 25%. Health professionals were using E-care platform every day to their great satisfaction. This experiment made it possible to validate the technology choices, to consolidate the system, and to test the robustness of the platform E-care. The collection continuously allowed us to have the critical number of patients for more detailed analysis of the relevance of alerts related to heart impairment. A preliminary analysis showed the relevance of the generated alerts.   CONCLUSION Preliminary results following the deployment of E-care platform in hospitals appear to show the relevance of technological choices, tools and solutions developed and adopted. This telemedicine system allows automatic, non-intrusive, generate alerts related to the detection of situations at risk for heart failure. Ultimately, E-care was capable of preventing hospitalization. A home deployment is currently underway.
Patient discharge is a key concern in hospitals, particularly in acute care, given the multifaceted and challenging nature of patients' healthcare needs. Policies on discharge have identified the importance of interprofessional collaboration, yet research has described its limitations in this clinical context. This study aimed to extend our understanding of interprofessional interactions related to discharge in a general internal medicine setting by using sociological theories to illuminate the existence of, and interplay between, structural factors and microlevel practices. An ethnographic approach was employed to obtain an in-depth insight into healthcare providers' perspectives, behaviours, and interactions regarding discharge. Data collection involved observations, interviews, and document analysis. Approximately 65 hours of observations were undertaken, 23 interviews were conducted with healthcare providers, and government and hospital discharge documents were collected. Data were analysed using a directed content approach. The findings indicate the existence of a medically dominated division of healthcare labour in patient discharge with opportunities for some interprofessional negotiations; the role of organizational routines in facilitating and challenging interprofessional negotiations in patient discharge; and tensions in organizational priorities that impact an interprofessional approach to discharge. The findings provide insight into the various levels at which interventions can be targeted to improve interprofessional collaboration in discharge while recognizing the organizational tensions that challenge an interprofessional approach.
Back pain is a significant medical problem and one of the most common causes of medical consultations and missed work. In acute low back pain, patients with 'red flags' indicating a serious underlying spinal or extraspinal disease must be identified by medical evaluation. Most cases of acute back pain are non-specific, and education, physical activity and pain medication is recommended. In addition, yellow flags (risks of developing chronic pain) should be recognized. The management of low back pain has been addressed by the German National Disease Management Guideline (NVL) low back pain published in 2010. This guideline evaluates the evidence and effectiveness of diagnostic and therapeutic interventions with a focus on nonspecific back pain. For chronic nonspecific low back pain intervention based on nondrug and drug therapy and a multiprofessional assessment is recommended. In patients with chronic inflammatory low back pain with onset before the age of 45, rheumatic spondyloarthritis should be considered. Recently, a guideline (S3-Leitlinie) for the management of axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis has become available. It provides evidence of physical and drug therapy including nonsteroidal antirheumatic and Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitor therapy.
BACKGROUND Although work hour is an important factors for resident workload, other contributing factors, such as patient severity, with regards to resident workload have been scarcely studied.   METHODS A prospective observational cohort study was conducted in a general medicine unit in an academic medical center in Taiwan. Every event for which the nurses needed to call the on-call residents was recorded. To quantify the workload, the responses of on-duty residents to calls were analyzed. To allow comparisons of patient factors to be made, we classified all patients by assigning them stable, unstable, or do-not-resuscitate (DNR) codes. The reasons for the calls were categorized to facilitate the comparisons across these three groups.   RESULTS From October 2009 to September 2011, a total of 2,518 patients were admitted to the general medicine unit. The nurses recorded a total of 847 calls from 730 call nights, ranging from 0 to 7 per night. Two peaks of calls, at 0-2 am and 6-7 am, were noted. Calls from stable, unstable, and DNR patients were 442 (52.2%), 95 (11.2%), and 298 (35.2%), respectively. For both unstable and DNR patients, the leading reason was abnormal vital signs (62.1% and 67.1%, respectively), while only 36.2% for stable patients. Both unstable and DNR patients required more bedside evaluation and management compared to stable patients.   CONCLUSION Beyond work hours and patient census, patients with different clinical severity and palliative goal produce different workload for on-call residents.
Continuity of care is a core value of patients and primary care physicians, yet in graduate medical education (GME), creating effective clinical teaching environments that emphasize continuity poses challenges. In this Perspective, the authors review three dimensions of continuity for patient care-informational, longitudinal, and interpersonal-and propose analogous dimensions describing continuity for learning that address both residents learning from patient care and supervisors and interprofessional team members supporting residents' competency development. The authors review primary care GME reform efforts through the lens of continuity, including the growing body of evidence that highlights the importance of longitudinal continuity between learners and supervisors for making competency judgments. The authors consider the challenges that primary care residency programs face in the wake of practice transformation to patient-centered medical home models and make recommendations to maximize the opportunity that these practice models provide. First, educators, researchers, and policy makers must be more precise with terms describing various dimensions of continuity. Second, research should prioritize developing assessments that enable the study of the impact of interpersonal continuity on clinical outcomes for patients and learning outcomes for residents. Third, residency programs should establish program structures that provide informational and longitudinal continuity to enable the development of interpersonal continuity for care and learning. Fourth, these educational models and continuity assessments should extend to the level of the interprofessional team. Fifth, policy leaders should develop a meaningful recognition process that rewards academic practices for training the primary care workforce.
The changing demography of European populations mandates a vital role for internists in caring for patients in each level of healthcare. Internists in the tertiary or academic setting are highly ranked in terms of their responsibilities: they are clinicians, educators, researchers, role models, mentors and administrators. Contrary to the highly focused approach of sub-specialties, general internists working in academic settings can ensure that coordinated care is delivered in the most cost-conscious and efficient way. Moreover, internal medicine is one of the most appropriate specialties in which to teach clinical reasoning skills, decision-making and analytical thinking, as well as evidence based, patient oriented medicine. Internists deal with challenging patients of the new millennium with a high burden of chronic diseases and polypharmacy; practice personalised medicine with a wide scientific background and so they are the perfect fit to establish and implement new tools for scientific research. In conclusion, internal medicine is developing a new identity as a specialty in its own right. The European Federation of Internal Medicine supports the concept of academic internists and calls upon the member countries to construct academic (general) internal medicine departments in their respective countries. As 'internal medicine is the cornerstone of every national healthcare system', academic (general) internal medicine should strive to be the cornerstone of every integrated, patient-centred, modern medical care and training system.
Residents in an internal medicine residency program 'flipped the classroom' in a series of learner-centered activities which included the creation of a medical student interest group, a continuing medical education symposium, and a journal supplement focused on wilderness medicine topics in Hawai'i and Asia Pacific. The project encompassed both scholarly activities (discovery, integration, application, and teaching) as well as scholarship (writing for publication). The project advanced the professional formation of residents by developing competencies and producing outcomes that are key features of the ACGME Next Accreditation System.
BACKGROUND Electronic sources of medical information are plentiful, and numerous studies have demonstrated the use of the Internet by patients and the variable reliability of these sources. Studies have investigated neither the use of web-based resources by residents, nor the reliability of the information available on these websites.   METHODS A web-based survey was distributed to surgical residents in Michigan and third- and fourth-year medical students at an American allopathic and osteopathic medical school and a Caribbean allopathic school regarding their preferred sources of medical information in various situations. A set of 254 queries simulating those faced by medical trainees on rounds, on a written examination, or during patient care was developed. The top 5 electronic resources cited by the trainees were evaluated for their ability to answer these questions accurately, using standard textbooks as the point of reference.   RESULTS The respondents reported a wide variety of overall preferred resources. Most of the 73 responding medical trainees favored textbooks or board review books for prolonged studying, but electronic resources are frequently used for quick studying, clinical decision-making questions, and medication queries. The most commonly used electronic resources were UpToDate, Google, Medscape, Wikipedia, and Epocrates. UpToDate and Epocrates had the highest percentage of correct answers (47%) and Wikipedia had the lowest (26%). Epocrates also had the highest percentage of wrong answers (30%), whereas Google had the lowest percentage (18%). All resources had a significant number of questions that they were unable to answer.   DISCUSSION Though hardcopy books have not been completely replaced by electronic resources, more than half of medical students and nearly half of residents prefer web-based sources of information. For quick questions and studying, both groups prefer Internet sources. However, the most commonly used electronic resources fail to answer clinical queries more than half of the time and have an alarmingly high rate of inaccurate information.
BACKGROUND Learning on the ward as a practice-oriented preparation for the future workplace plays a crucial role in the medical education of future physicians. However, students' ward internship is partially problematic due to condensed workflows on the ward and the high workload of supervising physicians. For the first time in a German-speaking setting, students' expectations and concerns about their internship on the ward are examined in a qualitative analysis regarding their internal medicine rotation within clinical medical education.   METHODS Of a total of 168 medical students in their 6th semester at the Medical Faculty of Heidelberg, 28 students (m=8, f=20, 횠 23.6 years) took part in focus group interviews 3 to 5 days prior to their internship on the internal medicine ward within their clinical internal medicine rotation. Students were divided into four different focus groups. The protocols were transcribed and a content analysis was conducted based on grounded theory.   RESULTS We gathered a total of 489 relevant individual statements. The students hope for a successful integration within the ward team, reliable and supportive supervisors and supervision in small groups. They expect to face the most common diseases, to train the most important medical skills, to assume full responsibility for their own patients and to acquire their own medical identity. The students fear an insufficient time frame to achieve their aims. They are also concerned they will have too little contact with patients and inadequate supervision.   CONCLUSION For the development and standardization of effective student internships, the greatest relevance should be attributed to guidance and supervision by professionally trained and well-prepared medical teachers, entailing a significant increase in staff and costs. A structural framework is required in order to transfer the responsibility for the treatment of patients to the students at an early stage in medical education and in a longitudinal manner. The data suggest that the development and establishment of guidelines for medical teachers associated with clearly defined learning objectives for the students' internships are urgently needed. Based on our findings, we provide first recommendations and suggest possible solutions.
OBJECTIVE Why physicians choose a certain specialty at a university hospital for their postgraduate training is incompletely understood. Our aim was to identify factors that led physicians from different generations to opt for postgraduate training in a specialty with high or low patient contact at a university hospital.   METHODS We conducted 14 semi-structured interviews with residents and attending physicians from the departments of Internal Medicine (high patient contact) and Laboratory Medicine (low patient contact) at the University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, Germany. We used template analysis to code the interview transcripts and iteratively reduced and displayed the data. Initial codes and concepts were shaped into categories until agreement on the final template was reached.   RESULTS We identified five main categories of factors that influenced postgraduate specialty selection. Role models with a civilized code of behavior and expertise in their specialty had had the greatest influence on participants' choice of a specialty across generations. Electives and a doctoral thesis project had also influenced participants' decisions, mainly because of meeting a role model in their supervisor. Patient contact and intellectual challenges were identified as contributing factors in the selection of a specialty with high patient contact. As reasons for selecting a university hospital for postgraduate education four categories were identified: the possibility to participate in scientific research, a broad spectrum of activities, personal contacts and future career opportunities.   CONCLUSIONS The professional attitudes of teachers as role models were identified as having the greatest influence on postgraduate education choices. Besides other actions to attract students to certain specialties for their postgraduate education, the aspect of being perceived as a role model while teaching requires particular attention when preparing medical faculty for undergraduate medical teaching.
IMPORTANCE In 1990, the American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) ended lifelong certification by initiating a 10-year Maintenance of Certification (MOC) program that first took effect in 2000. Despite the importance of this change, there has been limited research examining associations between the MOC requirement and patient outcomes.   OBJECTIVE To measure associations between the original ABIM MOC requirement and outcomes of care.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Quasi-experimental comparison between outcomes for Medicare beneficiaries treated in 2001 by 2 groups of ABIM-certified internal medicine physicians (general internists). One group (n=956), initially certified in 1991, was required to fulfill the MOC program in 2001 (MOC-required) and treated 84215 beneficiaries in the sample; the other group (n=974), initially certified in 1989, was grandfathered out of the MOC requirement (MOC-grandfathered) and treated 69830 similar beneficiaries in the sample. We compared differences in outcomes for the beneficiary cohort treated by the MOC-required general internists before (1999-2000) and after (2002-2005) they were required to complete MOC, using the beneficiary cohort treated by the MOC-grandfathered general internists as the control.   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Quality measures were ambulatory care-sensitive hospitalizations (ACSHs), measured using prevention quality indicators. Ambulatory care-sensitive hospitalizations are hospitalizations triggered by conditions thought to be potentially preventable through better access to and quality of outpatient care. Other outcomes included health care cost measures (adjusted to 2013 dollars).   RESULTS Annual incidence of ACSHs (per 1000 beneficiaries) increased from the pre-MOC period (37.9 for MOC-required beneficiaries vs 37.0 for MOC-grandfathered beneficiaries) to the post-MOC period (61.8 for MOC-required beneficiaries vs 61.4 for MOC-grandfathered beneficiaries) for both cohorts, as did annual per-beneficiary health care costs (pre-MOC period, $5157 for MOC-required beneficiaries vs $5133 for MOC-grandfathered beneficiaries; post-MOC period, $7633 for MOC-required beneficiaries vs $7793 for MOC-grandfathered beneficiaries). The MOC requirement was not statistically associated with cohort differences in the growth of the annual ACSH rate (per 1000 beneficiaries, 0.1 [95% CI, -1.7 to 1.9]; P=.92), but was associated with a cohort difference in the annual, per-beneficiary cost growth of -$167 (95% CI, -$270.5 to -$63.5; P=.002; 2.5% of overall mean cost).   CONCLUSION AND RELEVANCE Imposition of the MOC requirement was not associated with a difference in the increase in ACSHs but was associated with a small reduction in the growth differences of costs for a cohort of Medicare beneficiaries.
IMPORTANCE American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) initiatives encourage internists with time-unlimited certificates to recertify. However, there are limited data evaluating differences in performance between internists with time-limited or time-unlimited board certification.   OBJECTIVE To determine whether there are differences in primary care quality between physicians holding time-limited or time-unlimited certification.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Retrospective analysis of performance data from 1 year (2012-2013) at 4 Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers. Participants were internists with time-limited (n=71) or time-unlimited (n=34) ABIM certification providing primary care to 68,213 patients. Median physician panel size was 610 patients (range, 19-1316), with no differences between groups (P=.90).   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Ten primary care performance measures: colorectal screening rates; diabetes with glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c level) less than 9.0%; diabetes with blood pressure less than 140/90 mm Hg; diabetes with low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) level less than 100 mg/dL; hypertension with blood pressure less than 140/90 mm Hg; thiazide diuretics used in multidrug hypertensive regimen; atherosclerotic coronary artery disease and LDL-C level less than 100 mg/dL; post-myocardial infarction use of aspirin; post-myocardial infarction use of 棺-blockers; congestive heart failure (CHF) with use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor.   RESULTS After adjustment for practice site, panel size, years since certification, and clustering by physician, there were no differences in outcomes for patients cared for by internists with time-limited or time-unlimited certification for any performance measure: colorectal screening (odds ratio [OR], 0.95 [95% CI, 0.89-1.01]); diabetes with HbA1c level less than 9.0% (OR, 0.96 [95% CI, 0.74-1.2]); blood pressure control (OR, 0.99 [95% CI, 0.69-1.4]); LDL-C level less than 100 mg/dL (OR, 1.1 [95% CI, 0.79-1.5]); hypertension with blood pressure less than 140/90 mm Hg (OR, 1.0 [95% CI, 0.92-1.2]); thiazide use (OR, 1.0 [95% CI, 0.8-1.3]); atherosclerotic coronary artery disease with LDL-C level less than 100 mg/dL (OR, 1.1 [95% CI, 0.75-1.7]); post-myocardial infarction use of aspirin (OR, 0.98 [95% CI, 0.58-1.68]) or 棺-blockers (OR, 1.0 [95% CI, 0.57-1.9]); CHF with use of ACE inhibitor (OR, 0.98 [95% CI, 0.61-1.6]).   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Among internists providing primary care at 4 VA medical centers, there were no significant differences between those with time-limited ABIM certification and those with time-unlimited ABIM certification on 10 primary care performance measures. Additional research to examine the difference in patient outcomes among holders of time-limited and time-unlimited certificates in non-VA and nonacademic settings and the association with other ABIM goals may help clarify the potential benefit of Maintenance of Certification participation.
IMPORTANCE Graduate medical education training may imprint young physicians with skills and experiences, but few studies have evaluated imprinting on physician spending patterns.   OBJECTIVE To examine the relationship between spending patterns in the region of a physician's graduate medical education training and subsequent mean Medicare spending per beneficiary.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Secondary multilevel multivariable analysis of 2011 Medicare claims data (Part A hospital and Part B physician) for a random, nationally representative sample of family medicine and internal medicine physicians completing residency between 1992 and 2010 with Medicare patient panels of 40 or more patients (2851 physicians providing care to 491,948 Medicare beneficiaries).   EXPOSURES Locations of practice and residency training were matched with Dartmouth Atlas Hospital Referral Region (HRR) files. Training and practice HRRs were categorized into low-, average-, and high-spending groups, with approximately equal distribution of beneficiary numbers. There were 674 physicians in low-spending training and low-spending practice HRRs, 180 in average-spending training/low-spending practice, 178 in high-spending training/low-spending practice, 253 in low-spending training/average-spending practice, 417 in average-spending training/average-spending practice, 210 in high-spending training/average-spending practice, 97 in low-spending training/high-spending practice, 275 in average-spending training/high-spending practice, and 567 in high-spending training/high-spending practice.   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Mean physician spending per Medicare beneficiary.   RESULTS For physicians practicing in high-spending regions, those trained in high-spending regions had a mean spending per beneficiary per year $1926 higher (95% CI, $889-$2963) than those trained in low-spending regions. For practice in average-spending HRRs, mean spending was $897 higher (95% CI, $71-$1723) for physicians trained in high- vs low-spending regions. For practice in low-spending HRRs, the difference across training HRR levels was not significant ($533; 95% CI, -$46 to $1112). After controlling for patient, community, and physician characteristics, there was a 7% difference (95% CI, 2%-12%) in patient expenditures between low- and high-spending training HRRs. Across all practice HRRs, this corresponded to an estimated $522 difference (95% CI, $146-$919) between low- and high-spending training regions. For physicians 1 to 7 years in practice, there was a 29% difference ($2434; 95% CI, $1004-$4111) in spending between those trained in low- and high-spending regions; however, after 16 to 19 years, there was no significant difference.   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Among general internists and family physicians who completed residency training between 1992 and 2010, the spending patterns in the HRR in which their residency program was located were associated with expenditures for subsequent care they provided as practicing physicians for Medicare beneficiaries. Interventions during residency training may have the potential to help control future health care spending.
INTRODUCTION In order to develop an effective and accountable nursing practice is necessary to launch research projects through coordinated studies and one of the main strategies to achieve this goal is to define research priorities.   METHODS he aim of this study is define the nursing priority research in Internal Medicine and explore the possibility to define the nursing priority research in Internal Medicine. This is an observational study using a three-round Delphi method.   RESULTS Fifty-five nurses (77%) completed all three rounds. Two hundred eighty-four research priorities were recorded, organized in eighty areas. The technical - care and organized - management are the areas in which were identify more priorities.   CONCLUSIONS The top five priorities, identify as the most important, suggest the attention of Italian nurses in care of patients, management and in safe-care.
OBJECTIVE To determine in patients admitted with an acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (AE-COPD) the association between the isolation of potential pathogens in a conventional sputum culture and comorbidities.   PATIENTS AND METHODS The ESMI study is a multicenter observational study. Patients with AE-COPD admitted to the Internal Medicine departments of 70 hospitals were included. The clinical characteristics, treatments, and comorbidities were gathered. The results of conventional sputum cultures were recorded.   RESULTS A total of 536 patients were included, of which 161 produced valid sputum and a potentially pathogenic microorganism was isolated from 88 subjects (16.4%). The isolation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa (30.7%) was associated with a greater severity of the lung disease (previous admissions [P= 0.026], dyspnea scale [P=0.047], post-broncodilator forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) [P=0.005], and the BODEx index [P=0.009]); also with higher prevalence of cor pulmonale (P=0.017), heart failure (P=0.048), and cerebrovascular disease (P=0.026). Streptococcus pneumoniae (26.1%) was associated with more comorbidity according to number of diseases (P=0.018); notably, peripheral artery disease (P=0.033), hypertension (P=0.029), dyslipidemia (P=0.039), osteoporosis (P=0.0001), and depression (P=0.005).   CONCLUSION Patients with AE-COPD and P. aeruginosa present higher severity of COPD, while those with S. pneumoniae present greater comorbidity. The potentially pathogenic microorganism obtained in the sputum culture depends on the associated comorbidities.
OBJECTIVE To evaluate the effects of medical residency training program in postgraduate-year-one (PGY-1) residents at Peking Union Medical College (PUMC) Hospital.   METHODS PGY-1 medical residents at PUMC Hospital were surveyed by a self-administered questionnaire after they completed their first year residency.   RESULTS Forty-nine residents who completed their first year residency training participated in the survey with a 100% response rate. Before training, only a few had bedside (n = 18) and on-call experiences (n = 10). At the end of the one-year-training, all the residents (100%) considered themselves being improved to certain degrees, especially in clinical practice capability, and passed all the examinations. However, 53.1% and 8.2% of all the residents agreed that they need to improve their abilities in teaching (n = 26) and doctor-patient communication (n = 4), respectively. All residents hoped to get further improved by taking part in various forms of teaching activities, including experience summary/sharing and basic skills training. During the first year, 95.9% of them participated in all teaching activities in medicine actively.   CONCLUSIONS The tradition and current models of medical residency training program at PUMC Hospital had a significant impact on professional development of the 1st year resident physicians. It is critical to focus on basic skill training and multi-level teaching to improve residents' clinical competency.
How to recognize, announce and analyze incidents in internal medicine units is a daily challenge that is taught to all hospital staff. It allows suggesting useful improvements for patients, as well as for the medical department and the institution. Here is presented the assessment made in the CHUV internal medicine department one year after the beginning of the institutional procedure which promotes an open process regarding communication and risk management. The department of internal medicine underlines the importance of feedback to the reporters, ensures the staff of regular follow-up concerning the measures being taken and offers to external reporters such as general practioners the possibility of using this reporting system too.
INTRODUCTION Hypernatraemia in hospitalised patients is less common and less studied than hyponatraemia, although it also seems to be associated with a poor prognosis. The present study evaluates its prevalence, risk factors and prognosis in an internal medicine department.   METHODS Full hospital stays over 28 months in a 36-bed internal medicine department were analysed retrospectively. Patients with at least one plasma sodium  150 mmol/l were compared first with all other patients and then individually with sex- and age-matched normonatraemic controls.   RESULTS Plasma sodium  150 mmol첨l was observed during 49첨1945 hospitalisations (2.6%); it was acquired during hospitalisation in 30 cases (61%). Hypernatraemic patients were significantly older with no gender difference. They were comparable with their matched normonatraemic controls regarding the Charlson comorbidity index, although individual comorbidities varied. They were bedridden in 45% vs 15% for controls (p = 0.001). Nearly one-third of hypernatraemic patients had an increased extracellular fluid volume. Hypernatraemia was associated with higher in-hospital mortality (43% vs 2%, p < 0.001) and longer hospitalisation (median 21 vs 10 days, p = 0.004).   CONCLUSION Hypernatraemia is more likely to occur in older and dependent patients and is associated with poor prognosis. Unlike classical teaching, it is often associated with increased extracellular fluid volume, even outside intensive care units.
The importance of focused cardiac ultrasound (FCU) in Internal Medicine care has been recognized by the American Society of Echocardiography. The aim of this study was to test what realistic skill targets could be achieved in FCU, with a relatively short training (theoretical and practical) of 9혻h offered to Internal Medicine certification board attending students, and if the addition of further 9혻h of training could significantly improve the level of competence. Kappa statistic was used to calculate the inter-observer agreement (trainees/tutor). The agreement between the trainees (who completed the entire training) and the tutor was, respectively, 'substantial' (k혻=혻0.71) for the identification of pericardial effusion, 'moderate' (k혻=혻0.56-0.54) for the identification of marked right ventricular and left ventricular enlargement, 'substantial' (k혻=혻0.77) for the assessment of global cardiac systolic function by visual inspection and 'fair' (k혻=혻0.35) for the assessment of size and respiratory change in the diameter of the inferior cave vein (IVC). 18혻h training in FCU provided proficiency in obtaining adequate images from the parasternal window without providing the ability to correctly master the apical and subcostal windows. As concerns the interpretative skills, only pericardial effusion and visual estimation of global systolic function could be correctly identified, while ventricular enlargement and IVC prove to be more difficult to evaluate. This study supports incorporating FCU into Internal Medicine fellowship training programs, and should facilitate the design of other similar training courses.
BACKGROUND Key features examinations (KFEs) have been used to assess clinical decision making in medical education, yet there are no reports of an online KFE-based on a national curriculum for the internal medicine clerkship. What we did: The authors developed and pilot tested an electronic KFE based on the US Clerkship Directors in Internal Medicine core curriculum. Teams, with expert oversight and peer review, developed key features (KFs) and cases.   EVALUATION The exam was pilot tested at eight medical schools with 162 third and fourth year medical students, of whom 96 (59.3%) responded to a survey. While most students reported that the exam was more difficult than a multiple choice question exam, 61 (83.3%) students agreed that it reflected problems seen in clinical practice and 51 (69.9%) students reported that it more accurately assessed the ability to make clinical decisions.   CONCLUSIONS The development of an electronic KFs exam is a time-intensive process. A team approach offers built-in peer review and accountability. Students, although not familiar with this format in the US, recognized it as authentically assessing clinical decision-making for problems commonly seen in the clerkship.
OBJECTIVE Existing research is inconsistent on whether clinical experience is associated with improved management of type 2 diabetes mellitus. We sought to determine whether meeting diabetes quality indicators improves as general internal medicine physicians progress from first to last year of residency.   METHODS We performed a chart abstraction of electronic health records data covering the period from September 2008 to August 2011. In all, 352 patient records were abstracted and linked to year of resident provider. Type 2 diabetes quality indicators included glycated hemoglobin (A1C), low-density lipoprotein, diastolic and systolic blood pressure control, obtaining urine microalbumin or prescription for angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker and documented foot and eye examinations. Chi-square tests and logistic regression analysis were used to determine whether year of residency was associated with quality of care indices before and after adjusting for patient age, gender, race, body mass index and cigarette smoking.   RESULTS Urine microalbumin was the most often met indicator (76.9%), and the least often met indicator was documented eye examination (37.4%). Results of adjusted analysis indicated that the odds of A1C, low-density lipoprotein control, obtaining urine microalbumin and documented eye and foot examinations were greater among patients of second- and third-year residents compared with those of first-year residents (odds ratios range, 1.26-5.12). Urine microalbumin was the indicator most often in optimal control and least often met indicators were eye and foot examinations.   CONCLUSIONS We observed improvement in quality of diabetes care throughout residency. However, the low prevalence of several quality indicators indicates a need for additional training and quality improvement.
BACKGROUND Many different components factor into the final grade assigned for the internal medicine clerkship. Failure of one or more of these requires consideration of remedial measures.   PURPOSE To determine which assessment components are used to assign students a passing grade for the clerkship and what remediation measures are required when students do not pass a component.   METHODS A national cross-sectional survey of Clerkship Directors in Internal Medicine (CDIM) institutional members was conducted in April 2011. The survey included sections on remediation, grading practices, and demographics. The authors analyzed responses using descriptive and comparative statistics.   RESULTS Response rate was 73% (86/113). Medicine clerkships required students to pass the following components: clinical evaluations 83 (97%), NBME subject exam 76 (88%), written assignments 40 (46%), OSCE 35 (41%), in-house written exam 23 (27%), and mini-CEX 19 (22%). When students failed a component of the clerkship for the first time, 55 schools (64%) simply allowed students to make up the component, while only 16 (18%) allowed a simple make-up for a second failure. Additional ward time was required by 24 schools (28%) for a first-time failure of one component of the clerkship and by 49 (57%) for a second failure. The presence or absence of true remedial measures in a school was not associated with clerkship director academic rank, grading scheme, or percent of students who failed the clerkship in the previous year.   CONCLUSIONS Most schools required passing clinical evaluations and NBME subject exam components to pass the medicine clerkship, but there was variability in other requirements. Most schools allowed students to simply re-take the component for a first-time failure. This study raises the question of whether true remediation is being undertaken before students are asked to re-demonstrate competence in a failed area of the clerkship to be ready for the subinternship level.
The paper presents different forms of students' free work, which have been approved at the Department of Internal Propedeutics, such patient examination; preparation of a piece and an academic case history; night duties in a clinic; attending conferences on deontology; training in the simulation center, medical practice, assessment of practical skills and knowledge at the examination. These work forms enhance the efficiency of an educational process and extend the capabilities of mastering clinical examination methods and molding deontological culture in students.
PURPOSE The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of different levels of realism of context learning on the prescribing competencies of medical students during the clinical clerkship in internal medicine.   METHODS Between 2001 and 2007, 164 medical students took part in the prospective explorative study during their clinical clerkship in internal medicine at the VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. In a fixed order, each student had to formulate a treatment plan for a real patient in three situations of increasing realism: a minimal level (studying a patient record), medium level (preparing for a therapeutic consultation), and optimal level (preparing for and performing a therapeutic consultation with the patient).   RESULTS In comparison to studying a patient record (minimal context level), preparing a therapeutic consultation (medium context) improved four of the six steps of the WHO six-step plan. Preparing and performing a therapeutic consultation with a real patient (optimal context) further improved three essential prescribing competencies, namely checking for contraindications and interactions, prescription writing, and instructions to the patient.   CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS The results of this first explorative study suggest that enrichment of the learning context (responsibility for patient care) might be an important factor to improve the training of rational prescribing skills of medical students during their clinical clerkship in internal medicine. Clinical (pharmacology) teachers should be aware that seemingly small adaptations in the learning context of prescribing training during clinical clerkships (i.e., with or without involvement with and responsibility for patient care) may have relatively large impact on the development of prescribing competencies of our future doctors.
BACKGROUND Blood transfusion is the most common hospital procedure performed in the United States. While inadequate physician transfusion medicine knowledge may lead to inappropriate practice, such an educational deficit has not been investigated on an international scale using a validated assessment tool. Identifying specific deficiencies is critical for developing curricula to improve patient care.   STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS Rasch analysis, a method used in high-stakes testing, was used to validate an assessment tool consisting of a 23-question survey and a 20-question examination. The assessment tool was administered to internal medicine residents to determine prior training, attitudes, perceived ability, and actual knowledge related to transfusion medicine.   RESULTS A total of 474 residents at 23 programs in nine countries completed the examination. The overall mean score of correct responses was 45.7% (site range, 32%-56%). The mean score for Postgraduate Year (PGY)1 (43.9%) was significantly lower than for PGY3 (47.1%) and PGY4 (50.6%) residents. Although 89% of residents had participated in obtaining informed consent from a patient for transfusion, residents scored poorly (<25% correct) on questions related to transfusion reactions. The majority of residents (65%) would find additional transfusion medicine training 'very' or 'extremely' helpful.   CONCLUSION Internationally, internal medicine residents have poor transfusion medicine knowledge and would welcome additional training. The especially limited knowledge of transfusion reactions suggests an initial area for focused training. This study not only represents the largest international assessment of transfusion medicine knowledge, but also serves as a model for rigorous, collaborative research in medical education.
PURPOSE To obtain feedback from internal medicine residents, a key stakeholder group, regarding both the skills needed for internship and the fourth-year medical school courses that prepared them for residency. This feedback could inform fourth-year curriculum redesign efforts.   METHOD All internal medicine residents taking the 2013-2014 Internal Medicine In-Training Examination were asked to rank the importance of learning 10 predefined skills prior to internship and to use a dropdown menu of 11 common fourth-year courses to rank the 3 most helpful in preparing for internship. The predefined skills were chosen based on a review of the literature, a national subinternship curriculum, and expert consensus. Chi-square statistics were used to test for differences in responses between training levels.   RESULTS Of the 24,820 internal medicine residents who completed the exam, 20,484 (83%) completed the survey, had complete identification numbers, and consented to have their responses used for research. The three skills most frequently rated as very important were identifying when to seek additional help and expertise, prioritizing clinical tasks and managing time efficiently, and communicating with other providers around care transitions. The subinternship/acting internship was most often selected as being the most helpful course in preparing for internship.   CONCLUSIONS These findings indicate which skills and fourth-year medical school courses internal medicine residents found most helpful in preparing for internship and confirm the findings of prior studies highlighting the perceived value of subinternships. Internal medicine residents and medical educators agree on the skills students should learn prior to internship.
STUDY OBJECTIVE To identify the frequency of unintended medication discrepancies 30 days postdischarge from medicine wards with interprofessional medication reconciliation processes and clinical import.   METHODS Prospective cohort study of adults discharged between October 2013 and November 2014 from two teaching hospitals in Edmonton, Canada. The Best Possible Medication Discharge Plan (BPMDP) was prepared for all patients. Patients were called 30 days postdischarge to determine the medication discrepancy rate from the BPMDP and whether this was intentional or unintentional; three clinicians used standardized criteria to determine if the discrepancy was inconsequential. Electronic health records and patient contact were used to ascertain death, hospital readmissions, and emergency department (ED) visits at 90 days.   RESULTS Of 433 patients (mean age 64 yrs, 52% female, median discharge prescriptions 6 [interquartile range 4-9]), 168 (38.8%) had at least one unintentional medication discrepancy at 30 days (325 total discrepancies; median one [interquartile range 1-2 discrepancies per patient]). Patients with unintentional medication discrepancies were older (65.9 vs 61.9 yrs, p=0.03) with more discharge medications (7 vs 6, p=0.03). Most unintentional discrepancies (91.1%) were judged inconsequential. The presence of an unintentional medication discrepancy was not associated with 90-day readmission or death (42/167 [25.1%] vs 64/263 [24.3%], adjusted odds ratio 0.96 [95% confidence interval 0.60-1.54]) or ED visits (69 [41.3%] vs 101 [38.4%], adjusted odds ratio 1.11 [95% confidence interval 0.74-1.67].   CONCLUSION Despite the presence of an interprofessional medication reconciliation process, over one-third of patients had a medication discrepancy within 30 days of discharge, although most were inconsequential and there was no association between unintended medication discrepancies and risk of readmission, ED visit, or death 3 months after discharge.
This article summarizes a selection of recently published clinical and public health articles of interest to primary care physicians. It touches upon the use of new oral anticoagulant in atrial fibrillation, the efficacy of baclofen for alcohol dependence, the pathogen identification in community acquired pneumonia, the accuracy of emergency room diagnosis in patients with ill-defined symptoms, the relationship between sleep and susceptibility to infection, the benefits of smoking cessation and of a new vaccine against zoster in elderly patients and finally the distribution of health literacy in Europe.
The year 2015 gave us many scientific publications, among whom some will have an impact on our daily practice and some will influence our way of considering some well known diseases. Chief residents in the Service of internal medicine of the Lausanne University hospital, gathered like every year, to share their readings together in order to presentyou a small part of the many publications of 2015, which have been considered to have an impact on our future daily practice.
Progress in medical practice is often the result of a redefinition of pathologies and therapeutic targets. This is a natural translation of advances made in the pathophysiologic understanding of disease and clinical entities. In this manner, the use of biological agents is entering the field of cardiovascular medicine. This selective review of the literature summarizes certain studies published this year in the areas of internal, cardiovascular, pulmonary and thrombotic medicine.
Benzodiazepines are associated with the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Systematic dosage and vitamin D substitution have no place in times of immediate post-menopause. Topical placebos challenge analgesics in the treatment of knee osteoarthritis. Palliative chemotherapy does not improve life-quality at the end of life. Restrictive transfusion thresholds entail no risk. Spirometry should always be performed before the initiation of a long-term bronchodilator therapy. Practitioners continue to overprescribe antibiotics for infections of the upper respiratory tract. Pap test may soon be replaced by HPV urinary testing. Without increasing costs, a telephone triage by the primary care physician can reduce the number of consultations.
OBJECTIVE The extent of first-contact access to primary care (ie, easy availability when needed) is associated with receiving recommended preventive services. Whether this access benefits patients at risk of preventive services underutilisation, such as those with certain personality characteristics, is unclear.   SETTING Secondary analysis of the 2003-2006 round of the Wisconsin Longitudinal Study.   PARTICIPANTS 6975 respondents who reported a usual provider whose specialty was internal medicine or family medicine. Those reporting not visiting a medical provider in the past 12 months, and those who were uninsured were excluded.   PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURES Receiving mammography, cholesterol testing and influenza vaccination. Adjusted predicted probabilities (aPP) of receiving these services were analysed stratified by personality characteristics overall, and if significant, then interacted with first-contact access.   RESULTS Lower conscientiousness as compared with higher conscientiousness predicted less of all 3 preventive services; mammography (aPP 80%; 95% CI (77% to 83%) vs aPP 85%; (95% CI 82% to 87%)), cholesterol testing (88%; (85% to 90%) vs 93% (91% to 94%), and influenza vaccination (62%; (59% to 64%) vs 66%; (63% to 68%)). Lower agreeableness as compared with higher agreeableness predicted less mammography (77%; (73% to 81%) vs 84%; (82% to 87%)) and less influenza vaccination (59%; (56% to 62%) vs 65%; (63% to 68%)). Lower extraversion predicted less cholesterol testing (88%; (86% to 91%) vs (92%; (90% to 94%)). Lower openness to experience predicted less influenza vaccination (59%; (56% to 63%) vs (68%; (65% to 70%)). For agreeableness, these differences in receiving preventive services did not persist when first-contact access to primary care was present.   CONCLUSIONS Certain personality characteristics predicted receiving less preventive care services. For those with less agreeableness, improved first-contact access to primary care mitigated this effect. If these results are replicated in other studies, primary care offices seeking to improve population health through receiving preventive services should prioritise increasing their first-contact accessibility.
Introduction It is well known that adequate hygiene is important for health. Even though this topic has drawn the attention of the media, little or no scientific investigation has been done.   Methods We performed a comparative questionnaire-based cross-sectional study in three groups: patients attending a dermatology outpatient clinic, patients attending an internal medicine consultation, and community members.   Results We analyzed a total of 446 questionnaires (249 from dermatology patients, 98 from internal medicine patients, and 99 from the community group). The three groups did not differ statistically in sex and age (p=0.070). The patients from the dermatology department had a higher education level. The number of weekly baths did not differ among the three groups (p=0.417). Hair hygiene did not differ between the three groups. The dermatology and internal medicine groups washed their hands more frequently than the community group (p=0.028).   Conclusions Comparing our results to the limited data available, we find that the population surveyed has better hygiene habits than those previously reported. We believe that hygiene habits should be discussed during office visits.
Indication for bariatric or metabolic surgery depends primarily on body mass index. Recent study results however suggest, that other markers are more reliable predictors of metabolic success. A revision of indication criteria is therefore necessary especially for surgical therapy of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Postoperative management should include screening for postbariatric hypoglycemia and bone density. Furthermore psychologic surveillance is recommended.
BACKGROUND In the Next Accreditation System, the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education outlines milestones for medical knowledge and requires regular didactic sessions in residency training. There are many challenges to facilitating active learning in resident conferences, and we need to better understand resident learning preferences and faculty perspectives on facilitating active learning. The goal of this study was to identify challenges to facilitating active learning in resident conferences, both through identifying specific implementation barriers and identifying differences in perspective between faculty and residents on effective teaching and learning strategies.   METHODS The investigators invited core residency faculty to participate in focus groups. The investigators used a semistructured guide to facilitate discussion about learning preferences and teaching perspectives in the conference setting and used an 'editing approach' within a grounded theory framework to qualitative analysis to code the transcripts and analyze the results. Data were compared to previously collected data from seven resident focus groups.   RESULTS Three focus groups with 20 core faculty were conducted. We identified three domains pertaining to facilitating active learning in resident conferences: barriers to facilitating active learning formats, similarities and differences in faculty and resident learning preferences, and divergence between faculty and resident opinions about effective teaching strategies. Faculty identified several setting, faculty, and resident barriers to facilitating active learning in resident conferences. When compared to residents, faculty expressed similar learning preferences; the main differences were in motivations for conference attendance and type of content. Resident preferences and faculty perspectives differed on the amount of information appropriate for lecture and the role of active participation in resident conferences.   CONCLUSION This study highlights several challenges to facilitating active learning in resident conferences and provides insights for residency faculty who seek to transform the conference learning environment within their residency program.
AIM to assess risk of development of diabetes mellitus (DM) and detection of other metabolic derangements among physicians-internists.   MATERIAL AND METHODS In an open clinical screening study participated 117 male and 167 female physicians mostly cardiologists and internists from various regions of Russia. All participants filled in standard questionnaires and were subjected to examination which included measurement of height, body mass, waist circumference, determination of adipose tissue mass adiposity analyzer, registration of arterial pressure, and assessment of DM risk using Finnish Diabetes Risk Score (FINDRISC).   RESULTS Each second physician had high value of adipose mass volume. Abdominal obesity was found in every third participant irrespective of age. High AP values were detected in 53% of men and 21% of women. Every sixth respondent had moderate or high risk of DM. Moderate risk among men was 2.5 high than in women while high and very high risk was 2 times more frequent in women.   CONCLUSION Because of high prevalence of metabolic disturbances primary prevention is a pressing in this social group.
The belief that hospital stays may constitute per se a risk for patients is not widespread among patients and health care professionals. In the balance between advantages and disadvantages of admission, we rarely take into account the impact of the hospital stay itself on the well-being of the patient. In a society that is getting older the hospital may become a hostile environment for the complex and frail patient. Reducing the risks associated with hospital admission implies a radical cultural change accepted and shared by all health care professionals. The critical reconsideration of admission is a way of reasoning not only on hospitalisation but also on what the correct health outcome paradigms should be.
BACKGROUND In order to teach residents how to work in interprofessional teams, educators in graduate medical education are implementing team-based care models in resident continuity clinics. However, little is known about the impact of interprofessional teams on residents' education in the ambulatory setting.   OBJECTIVE To identify factors affecting residents' experience of team-based care within continuity clinics and the impact of these teams on residents' education.   DESIGN This was a qualitative study of focus groups with internal medicine residents.   PARTICIPANTS Seventy-seven internal medicine residents at the University of California San Francisco at three continuity clinic sites participated in the study.   APPROACH Qualitative interviews were audiotaped and transcribed. The authors used a general inductive approach with sensitizing concepts in four frames (structural, human resources, political and symbolic) to develop codes and identify themes.   KEY RESULTS Residents believed that team-based care improves continuity and quality of care. Factors in four frames affected their ability to achieve these goals. Structural factors included communication through the electronic medical record, consistent schedules and regular team meetings. Human resources factors included the presence of stable teams and clear roles. Political and symbolic factors negatively impacted team-based care, and included low staffing ratios and a culture of ultimate resident responsibility, respectively. Regardless of the presence of these factors or resident perceptions of their teams, residents did not see the practice of interprofessional team-based care as intrinsically educational.   CONCLUSIONS Residents' experiences practicing team-based care are influenced by many principles described in the interprofessional teamwork literature, including understanding team members' roles, good communication and sufficient staffing. However, these attributes are not correlated with residents' perceptions of the educational value of team-based care. Including residents in interprofessional teams in their clinic may not be sufficient to teach residents how team-based care can enhance their overall learning and future practice.
BACKGROUND Although direct patient care is necessary for experiential learning during residency, inpatient perceptions of the roles of resident and attending physicians in their care may have changed with residency duty hours.   OBJECTIVE We aimed to assess if patients' perceptions of who is most involved in their care changed with residency duty hours.   DESIGN This was a prospective observational study over 12 years at a single institution.   PARTICIPANTS Participants were 22,408 inpatients admitted to the general medicine teaching service from 2001 to 2013, who completed a 1-month follow-up phone interview.   MAIN MEASURES Percentage of inpatients who reported an attending, resident, or intern as most involved in their care by duty hour period (pre-2003, post-2003-pre-2011, post-2011).   KEY RESULTS With successive duty hour limits, the percentage of patients who reported the attending as most involved in their care increased (pre-2003 20 %, post-2003-pre-2011 29 %, post-2011 37 %, p < 0.001). Simultaneously, fewer patients reported a housestaff physician (resident or intern) as most involved in their care (pre-2003 20 %, post-2003-pre-2011 17 %, post-2011 12 %, p < 0.001). In multinomial regression models controlling for patient age, race, gender and hospitalist as teaching attending, the relative risk ratio of naming the resident versus the attending was higher in the pre-2003 period (1.44, 95 % CI 1.28-1.62, p < 0.001) than the post-2003-pre-2011 (reference group). In contrast, the relative risk ratio for naming the resident versus the attending was lower in the post-2011 period (0.79, 95 % CI 0.68-0.93, p = 0.004) compared to the reference group.   CONCLUSIONS After successive residency duty hours limits, hospitalized patients were more likely to report the attending physician and less likely to report the resident or intern as most involved in their hospital care. Given the importance of experiential learning to the formation of clinical judgment for independent practice, further study on the implications of these trends for resident education and patient safety is warranted.
BACKGROUND Little is known about how well faculty at teaching hospitals role-model behaviors consistent with cost-conscious care.   OBJECTIVE We aimed to evaluate whether residents and program directors report that faculty at their program consistently role-model cost-conscious care, and whether the presence of a formal residency curriculum in cost-conscious care impacted responses.   DESIGN Cost-conscious care surveys were administered to internal medicine residents during the 2012 Internal Medicine In-Training Examination and to program directors during the 2012 Association of Program Directors in Internal Medicine Annual Survey. Respondents stated whether or not they agreed that faculty in their program consistently role-model cost-conscious care. To evaluate a more comprehensive assessment of faculty behaviors, resident responses were matched with those of the director of their residency program. A multivariate logistic regression model was fit to the outcome variable, to identify predictors of responses that faculty do consistently role-model cost-conscious care from residency program, resident, and program director characteristics.   PARTICIPANTS Responses from 12,623 residents (58.4 % of total sample) and 253 program directors (68.4 %) from internal medicine residency programs in the United States were included.   MAIN MEASURES The primary outcome measure was responses to questionnaires on faculty role-modeling cost-conscious care.   KEY RESULTS Among all responses in the final sample, 6,816 (54.0 %) residents and 121 (47.8 %) program directors reported that faculty in their program consistently role-model cost-conscious care. Among paired responses of residents and their program director, the proportion that both reported that faculty do consistently role-modeled cost-conscious care was 23.0 % for programs with a formal residency curriculum in cost-conscious care, 26.3 % for programs working on a curriculum, and 23.7 % for programs without a curriculum. In the adjusted model, the presence of a formal curriculum in cost-conscious care did not have a significant impact on survey responses (odds ratio [OR], 1.04; 95 % Confidence Interval [CI], 0.52-2.06; p value [p]= 0.91).   CONCLUSIONS Responses from residents and program directors indicate that faculty at US teaching hospitals were not consistently role-modeling cost-conscious care. The presence of a formal residency curriculum in cost-conscious care did not impact responses. Future efforts should focus on placing more emphasis on faculty development and on combining curricular improvements with institutional interventions to adapt the training environment.
For decades, the internal medicine (IM) subinternship has served as a critical interface between undergraduate and graduate medical education. As such, the vast majority of U.S. medical schools offer this rotation to help students prepare for post-graduate training. Historically an experiential rotation, a formal curriculum with specific learning objectives was eventually developed for this course in 2002. Since then, graduate medical education (GME) has changed significantly with the regulation of duty hours, adoption of competency-based education, and development of training milestones and entrustable professional activities. In response to these and many other changes to residency training and medical practice, in 2010, the Association of Program Directors in Internal Medicine (APDIM) surveyed its members-with input from the Clerkship Directors in Internal Medicine (CDIM) Subinternship Task Force-to determine which core skills program directors expected from new medical school graduates. The results of that survey helped to inform a joint CDIM-APDIM committee's decision to re-evaluate the goals of the IM subinternship in an effort to enhance the transition from medical school to residency. This joint committee defined the minimum expectations of what constitutes an IM subinternship rotation, proposed recommended skills for IM subinterns, and discussed challenges and future directions for this crucial course.
BACKGROUND The new UCSF Bridges Curriculum aims to prepare students to succeed in today's health care system while simultaneously improving it. Curriculum redesign requires assessment strategies that ensure that graduates achieve competence in enduring and emerging skills for clinical practice.   AIM To design entrustable professional activities (EPAs) for assessment in a new curriculum and gather evidence of content validity.   SETTING University of California, San Francisco, School of Medicine.   PARTICIPANTS Nineteen medical educators participated; 14 completed both rounds of a Delphi survey.   PROGRAM DESCRIPTION Authors describe 5 steps for defining EPAs that encompass a curricular vision including refining the vision, defining draft EPAs, developing EPAs and assessment strategies, defining competencies and milestones, and mapping milestones to EPAs. A Q-sort activity and Delphi survey involving local medical educators created consensus and prioritization for milestones for each EPA.   PROGRAM EVALUATION For 4 EPAs, most milestones had content validity indices (CVIs) of at least 78 %. For 2 EPAs, 2 to 4 milestones did not achieve CVIs of 78 %.   DISCUSSION We demonstrate a stepwise procedure for developing EPAs that capture essential physician work activities defined by a curricular vision. Structured procedures for soliciting faculty feedback and mapping milestones to EPAs provide content validity.
BACKGROUND Clinical management of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) continues to be suboptimal; simulation-based training may bridge this gap and is particularly applicable to teaching DKA management skills given it enables learning of basic knowledge, as well as clinical reasoning and patient management skills.   OBJECTIVES 1) To develop, test, and refine a computer-based simulator of DKA management; 2) to collect validity evidence, according to National Standard's validity framework; and 3) to judge whether the simulator scoring system is an appropriate measure of DKA management skills of undergraduate and postgraduate medical trainees.   DESIGN After developing the DKA simulator, we completed usability testing to optimize its functionality. We then conducted a preliminary validation of the scoring system for measuring trainees' DKA management skills.   PARTICIPANTS We recruited year 1 and year 3 medical students, year 2 postgraduate trainees, and endocrinologists (n = 75); each completed a simulator run, and we collected their simulator-computed scores.   MAIN MEASURES We collected validity evidence related to content, internal structure, relations with other variables, and consequences.   KEY RESULTS Our simulator consists of six cases highlighting DKA management priorities. Real-time progression of each case includes interactive order entry, laboratory and clinical data, and individualised feedback. Usability assessment identified issues with clarity of system status, user control, efficiency of use, and error prevention. Regarding validity evidence, Cronbach's 慣 was 0.795 for the seven subscales indicating favorable internal structure evidence. Participants' scores showed a significant effect of training level (p < 0.001). Scores also correlated with the number of DKA patients they reported treating, weeks on Medicine rotation, and comfort with managing DKA. A score on the simulation exercise of 75 % had a sensitivity and specificity of 94.7 % and 51.8%, respectively, for delineating between expert staff physicians and trainees.   CONCLUSIONS We demonstrate how a simulator and scoring system can be developed, tested, and refined to determine its quality for use as an assessment modality. Our evidence suggests that it can be used for formative assessment of trainees' DKA management skills.
BACKGROUND Face-to-face formal evaluation sessions between clerkship directors and faculty can facilitate the collection of trainee performance data and provide frame-of-reference training for faculty.   OBJECTIVE We hypothesized that ambulatory faculty who attended evaluation sessions at least once in an academic year (attendees) would use the Reporter-Interpreter-Manager/Educator (RIME) terminology more appropriately than faculty who did not attend evaluation sessions (non-attendees).   DESIGN Investigators conducted a retrospective cohort study using the narrative assessments of ambulatory internal medicine clerkship students during the 2008-2009 academic year.   PARTICIPANTS The study included assessments of 49 clerkship medical students, which comprised 293 individual teacher narratives.   MAIN MEASURES Single-teacher written and transcribed verbal comments about student performance were masked and reviewed by a panel of experts who, by consensus, (1) determined whether RIME was used, (2) counted the number of RIME utterances, and (3) assigned a grade based on the comments. Analysis included descriptive statistics and Pearson correlation coefficients.   KEY RESULTS The authors reviewed 293 individual teacher narratives regarding the performance of 49 students. Attendees explicitly used RIME more frequently than non-attendees (69.8 vs. 40.4 %; p < 0.0001). Grades recommended by attendees correlated more strongly with grades assigned by experts than grades recommended by non-attendees (r = 0.72; 95 % CI (0.65, 0.78) vs. 0.47; 95 % CI (0.26, 0.64); p = 0.005). Grade recommendations from individual attendees and non-attendees each correlated significantly with overall student clerkship clinical performance [r = 0.63; 95 % CI (0.54, 0.71) vs. 0.52 (0.36, 0.66), respectively], although the difference between the groups was not statistically significant (p = 0.21).   CONCLUSIONS On an ambulatory clerkship, teachers who attended evaluation sessions used RIME terminology more frequently and provided more accurate grade recommendations than teachers who did not attend. Formal evaluation sessions may provide frame-of-reference training for the RIME framework, a method that improves the validity and reliability of workplace assessment.
BACKGROUND Despite increased emphasis on cost-consciousness in graduate medical training, there is little empirical evidence of the role of attending physician supervision on resident practice in this area.   OBJECTIVE To study whether the prescribing practices of attendings influence residents' prescribing of brand-name statin medications in the ambulatory clinic setting.   DESIGN AND PARTICIPANTS A retrospective study of statin prescriptions by residents at two internal medicine residency programs, using electronic medical record data from July 2007 through November 2011.   MAIN MEASURES We estimated multivariable hierarchical logistic regression models to assess the independent effect of the supervising attending's rate of brand-name prescribing in the preceding quarter on the likelihood of a resident prescribing a brand-name statin.   KEY RESULTS The sample included 342 residents and 58 attendings, accounting for 10,151 initial statin prescriptions, including 3,942 by residents. Brand-name statins were prescribed in about one-fourth of encounters. After adjusting for patient-, physician-, and practice-level factors, the supervising attendings' brand-name prescribing rate in the quarter preceding the encounter was positively associated with a postgraduate year (PGY)-1 resident's prescribing a brand-name statin, but not for PGY-2 or PGY-3 residents. For PGY-1 residents, the adjusted probability of a resident prescribing a brand-name statin ranged from 22.6 % (95 % CI 17.3-28.0 %, p < 0.001) for residents supervised by an attending who prescribed < 20 % brand-name statins in the previous quarter to 41.6 % (95 % CI 24.6-58.5 %, p < 0.001) for residents supervised by an attending who prescribed at least 80 % brand-name statins in the previous quarter. A higher PGY level was associated with brand-name prescribing (aOR 2.07, 95 % CI 1.28-3.35, p = 0.003 for PGY-2; aOR 2.15, 95 % CI 1.31-3.55, p = 0.003 for PGY-3, vs. PGY-1).   CONCLUSIONS Supervising attendings' prescribing of brand-name medications may have a significant influence on PGY-1 residents' prescribing of brand-name medications, but not on prescribing by more senior residents.
BACKGROUND Prior to graduation, US medical students are required to complete clinical clerkship rotations, most commonly in the specialty areas of family medicine, internal medicine, obstetrics and gynecology (ob/gyn), pediatrics, psychiatry, and surgery. Within a school, the sequence in which students complete these clerkships varies. In addition, the length of these rotations varies, both within a school for different clerkships and between schools for the same clerkship.   OBJECTIVE The present study investigated the effects of clerkship sequence and length on performance on the National Board of Medical Examiner's subject examination in internal medicine.   PARTICIPANTS The study sample included 16,091 students from 67 US Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME)-accredited medical schools who graduated in 2012 or 2013.   MAIN MEASURES Student-level measures included first-attempt internal medicine subject examination scores, first-attempt USMLE Step 1 scores, and five dichotomous variables capturing whether or not students completed rotations in family medicine, ob/gyn, pediatrics, psychiatry, and surgery prior to taking the internal medicine rotation. School-level measures included clerkship length and average Step 1 score.   DESIGN Multilevel models with students nested in schools were estimated with internal medicine subject examination scores as the dependent measure. Step 1 scores and the five dichotomous variables were treated as student-level predictors. Internal medicine clerkship length and average Step 1 score were used to predict school-to-school variation in average internal medicine subject examination scores.   KEY RESULTS Completion of rotations in surgery, pediatrics and family medicine prior to taking the internal medicine examination significantly improved scores, with the largest benefit observed for surgery (coefficient = 1.58 points; p value < 0.01); completion of rotations in ob/gyn and psychiatry were unrelated to internal medicine subject examination performance. At the school level, longer internal medicine clerkships were associated with higher scores on the internal medicine examination (coefficient = 0.23 points/week; p value < 0.01).   CONCLUSIONS The order in which students complete clinical clerkships and the length of the internal medicine clerkship are associated with their internal medicine subject examination scores. Findings may have implications for curriculum re-design.
BACKGROUND Remediation in the era of competency-based assessment demands a model that empowers students to improve performance.   AIM To examine a remediation model where students, rather than faculty, develop remedial plans to improve performance.   SETTING/PARTICIPANTS Private medical school, 177 medical students.   PROGRAM DESCRIPTION A promotion committee uses student-generated portfolios and faculty referrals to identify struggling students, and has them develop formal remediation plans with personal reflections, improvement strategies, and performance evidence. Students submit reports to document progress until formally released from remediation by the promotion committee.   PROGRAM EVALUATION Participants included 177 students from six classes (2009-2014). Twenty-six were placed in remediation, with more referrals occurring during Years 1 or 2 (n = 20, 76 %). Unprofessional behavior represented the most common reason for referral in Years 3-5. Remedial students did not differ from classmates (n = 151) on baseline characteristics (Age, Gender, US citizenship, MCAT) or willingness to recommend their medical school to future students (p < 0.05). Two remedial students did not graduate and three did not pass USLME licensure exams on first attempt. Most remedial students (92 %) generated appropriate plans to address performance deficits.   DISCUSSION Students can successfully design remedial interventions. This learner-driven remediation model promotes greater autonomy and reinforces self-regulated learning.
PURPOSE Professional and governmental organizations recommend an ideal US physician workforce composed of at least 40 % primary care physicians. They also support primary care residencies to promote careers in primary care. Our study examines the relationship between graduation from a primary care or categorical internal medicine residency program and subsequent career choice.   METHODS We conducted a cross-sectional electronic survey of a cohort of internal medicine residency alumni who graduated between 2001 and 2010 from a large academic center. Our primary predictor was graduation from a primary care versus a categorical internal medicine program and our primary outcome is current career role. We performed chi-square analysis comparing responses of primary care and categorical residents.   RESULTS We contacted 481 out of 513 alumni, of whom 322 responded (67 %). We compared 106 responses from primary care alumni to 169 responses from categorical alumni. Fifty-four percent of primary care alumni agreed that the majority of their current clinical work is in outpatient primary care vs. 20 % of categorical alumni (p < 0.001). While 92.5 % of primary-care alumni were interested in a primary care career prior to residency, only 63 % remained interested after residency. Thirty of the 34 primary care alumni (88 %) who lost interest in a primary care career during residency agreed that their ambulatory experience during residency influenced their subsequent career choice.   CONCLUSIONS A higher percentage of primary care alumni practice outpatient primary care as compared to categorical alumni. Some alumni lost interest in primary care during residency. The outpatient clinic experience may impact interest in primary care.
BACKGROUND An experimenter controlled form of reflection has been shown to improve the detection and correction of diagnostic errors in some situations; however, the benefits of participant-controlled reflection have not been assessed.   OBJECTIVE The goal of the current study is to examine how experience and a self-directed decision to reflect affect the accuracy of revised diagnoses.   DESIGN Medical residents diagnosed 16 medical cases (pass 1). Participants were then given the opportunity to reflect on each case and revise their diagnoses (pass 2).   PARTICIPANTS Forty-seven medical Residents in post-graduate year (PGY) 1, 2 and 3 were recruited from Hamilton Health Care Centres.   MAIN MEASURES Diagnoses were scored as 0 (incorrect), 1 (partially correct) and 2 (correct). Accuracies and response times in pass 1 were analyzed using an ANOVA with three factors-PGY, Decision to revise yes/no, and Case 1-16, averaged across residents. The extent to which additional reflection affected accuracy was examined by analyzing only those cases that were revised, using a repeated measures ANOVA, with pass 1 or 2 as a within subject factor, and PGY and Case or Resident as a between-subject factor.   KEY RESULTS The mean score at pass 1 for each level was PGY1, 1.17 (SE 0.50); PGY2, 1.35 (SE 0.67) and PGY3, 1.27 (SE 0.94). While there was a trend for increased accuracy with level, this did not achieve significance. The number of residents at each level who revised at least one diagnosis was 12/19 PGY1 (63 %), 9/11 PGY2 (82 %) and 8/17 PGY3 (47 %). Only 8 % of diagnoses were revised resulting in a small but significant increase in scores from Pass 1 to 2, from 1.20/2 to 1.22 /2 (t = 2.15, p = 0.03).   CONCLUSIONS Participants did engage in self-directed reflection for incorrect diagnoses; however, this strategy provided minimal benefits compared to knowing the correct answer. Education strategies should be directed at improving formal and experiential knowledge.
BACKGROUND Since the 2011 Accreditation Council of Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) work hour rules for residents were implemented, 24-30 h call for interns has been replaced by shift work, including night-float. The impact of these changes on undergraduate medical education experiences in internal medicine has not been described.   OBJECTIVE We aimed to determine the current status of medical students' overnight experiences in Internal Medicine clerkships and sub-internships, and to assess internal medicine educators' perceptions of the importance of overnight work during internal medicine rotations.   DESIGN AND PARTICIPANTS In May 2014, the Clerkship Directors in Internal Medicine (CDIM) conducted its annual survey. Twenty-eight questions about student participation in overnight work and perceptions of the importance of overnight work (rated on 1-5 Likert scale, 1 = very unimportant and 5 = ery important) were included. Descriptive statistics were used to summarize responses. Free text results were analyzed qualitatively.   KEY RESULTS The response rate was 78 %. A minority of respondents reported students having any overnight experience during the clerkship (38.7 %) or the sub-internship (40.7 %). Only 5 % of respondents reported having students assigned to night-float rotations outside of clerkships or sub-internships. Respondents agreed that overnight experiences were more important during the sub-internship than the clerkship, 4.0 짹 1.1 vs. 3.2 짹 1.2, p < 0.001. Admitting new patients, following their course and responding to emergencies were rated as important overnight tasks for both clerkship and sub-internship students.   CONCLUSIONS Overnight experiences offer students additional educational opportunities. Clerkship directors felt that the overnight experience for the sub-intern in particular was an important chance to practice providing emergency cross coverage and other intern roles. In the era of ACGME duty hours, there is a need to further examine whether there is a role for increased overnight hospital experiences for medical students.
BACKGROUND Optimal care delivery requires timely, efficient, and accurate communication among numerous providers and their patients, especially during hospital discharge. Little is known about communication patterns during this process.   OBJECTIVE Our aim was to assess the frequency and patterns of communication between patients and providers during patient discharges from a hospital-based medicine unit.   DESIGN AND APPROACH On the day of the patient's discharge, the patient and all healthcare providers involved in the discharge were interviewed using structured questions related to information exchange during the discharge process. Each interview identified the frequency and method of communication between participants, including synchronous (e.g., face-to-face) and asynchronous (e.g., through electronic medical record) routes. Communication patterns were visually diagramed using social network analysis.   PARTICIPANTS Forty-six patients were screened for inclusion in the network analysis. Of those, seven patients who were fully oriented and able to complete an interview and all providers who participated in their care during the discharge were selected for inclusion in the analysis. In all, 72 healthcare professionals contributing to the discharge process were interviewed, including physicians, nurses, therapists, pharmacists, care coordinators, social workers, and nutritionists.   KEY RESULTS Patients' mean age was 63, length-of-stay was 7.8 days, and most (86 %) were discharged to home. On average, 11 roles were involved with each discharge. The majority of communication was synchronous (562 events vs. 469 asynchronous events, p = 0.004). Most communication events occurred between the primary nurse and patient and the care coordinator and primary nurse (mean 3.9 and 2.3 events/discharge, respectively). Participants identified intern physicians as most important in the discharge process, followed by primary nurses and care coordinators.   CONCLUSIONS In patients being discharged from the medicine service, communication was more frequently synchronous, and occurred between intern physicians, primary nurses, and patients. Potential improvements in coordinating patients' discharges are possible by reorganizing systems to optimize efficient communication.
BACKGROUND Residency training is charged with improving resident teaching skills. Utilizing simulation in teacher training has unique advantages such as providing a controlled learning environment and opportunities for deliberate practice.   OBJECTIVE We assessed the impact of a simulation-based resident-as-teacher (RaT) program.   DESIGN A RaT program was embedded in an existing 8-case simulation curriculum for 52 internal medicine (IM) interns. Residents participated in a workshop, then served as facilitators in the curriculum and received feedback from faculty.   METHODS Residents' teaching and feed back skills were measured using a pre- and post-program self-assessment and post-session and post-curriculum evaluations by intern learners.   SETTING/PARTICIPANTS Forty-one second- and third-year residents participated in the study August 2013 to October 2013 at a single center.   RESULTS Pre- and post-program teaching skills were assessed for 34 of 41 resident facilitators (83%) participating in 3.9 sessions on average. Partaking in the program led to improvements in resident facilitators' self-reported teaching and feedback skills across all domains. The most significant improvement was in teaching in a simulated environment (2.81 to 4.16, P < 0.001). Interns rated the curriculum highly (81% 'excellent,' 19% 'good') and reported that resident facilitators frequently utilized debriefing techniques covered in the RaT program.   CONCLUSIONS Our simulation-based RaT program offered a unique opportunity for deliberate practice of teaching skills in a controlled environment and led to improvements in resident facilitators' teaching and feed back skills. The simulation curriculum, facilitated by residents, was well received by the intern learners. Our program design may serve as a model for the development of simulation curricula and RaT programs within IM residencies.
PURPOSE To examine the perceived likelihood of sustaining new residency positions funded by five-year (2010-2015) Primary Care Residency Expansion (PCRE) grants from the Health Resources and Services Administration, which aimed to increase training output to address primary care workforce issues.   METHOD During September-December 2013, the authors administered an online or telephone survey to program directors whose residency programs received PCRE grants. The main outcome measure was perceived likelihood of sustaining the expanded residency positions beyond the expiration of the grant, in the outlying years of 2016 and 2017 (when the positions will be partially supported) and after 2017 (when the positions will be unsupported).   RESULTS Of 78 eligible program directors, 62 responded (response rate = 79.5%). Twenty-eight (45.1%; 95% CI 32.9%-57.9%) reported that their programs were unlikely to, very unlikely to, or not planning to continue the expanded positions after the PCRE grant expires. Overall, 14 (22.5%) reported having secured full funding to support the expanded positions beyond 2017. Family medicine and pediatrics program directors were significantly less likely than internal medicine program directors to report having secured funding for the outlying years (P = .02).   CONCLUSIONS This study suggests that an approach to primary care residency training expansion that relies on time-limited grants is unlikely to produce sustainable growth of the primary care pipeline. Policy makers should instead implement systemic reform of graduate medical education (GME) financing and designate reliable sources of funding, such as Medicare and Medicaid GME funds, for new primary care residency positions.
PURPOSE Although focused cardiac ultrasonographic (FoCUS) examination has been evaluated in emergency departments and intensive care units with good correlation to formal echocardiography, accuracy for the assessment of left ventricular systolic function (LVSF) when performed by internal medicine physicians still needs independent evaluation.   METHODS This prospective observational study in a 640-bed, academic, quaternary care center, included 178 inpatients examined by 10 internal medicine physicians who had completed our internal medicine bedside ultrasound training program. The ability to estimate LVSF with FoCUS as 'normal,' 'mild to moderately decreased,' or 'severely decreased' was compared with left ventricular ejection fraction (>50%, 31-49%, and <31%, respectively) from formal echocardiography interpreted by a cardiologist.   RESULTS Sensitivity and specificity of FoCUS for any degree of LVSF impairment were 0.91 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.80, 0.97) and 0.88 (95% CI 0.81, 0.93), respectively. The interrater agreement between internal medicine physician-performed FoCUS and formal echocardiography for any LVSF impairment was 'good/substantial' with 觀 = 0.77 (p < 0.001), 95% CI (0.67, 0.87). Formal echocardiography was classified as 'technically limited due to patient factors' in 20% of patients; however, echogenicity was sufficient in 100% of FoCUS exams to classify LVSF.   CONCLUSIONS Internal medicine physicians using FoCUS identify normal versus decreased LVSF with high sensitivity, specificity, and 'good/substantial' interrater agreement when compared with formal echocardiography. These results support the role of cardiac FoCUS by properly trained internal medicine physicians for discriminating normal from reduced LVSF.
OBJECTIVE Measurement is necessary to gauge improvement. US training programs have not previously used shared standards to assess trainees' mastery of the knowledge, skills, and attitudes necessary to practice rheumatology competently. In 2014, the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) Next Accreditation System began requiring semiannual evaluation of all medicine subspecialty fellows on 23 internal medicine subspecialty reporting milestones. Since these reporting milestones are not subspecialty specific, rheumatology curricular milestones were needed to guide rheumatology fellowship training programs and fellows on the training journey from internist to rheumatologist.   METHODS Rheumatology curricular milestones were collaboratively composed by expanding the internal medicine reporting milestones to delineate the specific targets of rheumatology fellowship training within 6 ACGME core competencies. The 2006 American College of Rheumatology core curriculum for rheumatology training programs was updated.   RESULTS A total of 80 rheumatology curricular milestones were created, defining progressive learning through training; most focus on patient care and medical knowledge. The core curriculum update incorporates the new curricular milestones and rheumatology entrustable professional activities.   CONCLUSION Rheumatology curricular milestones are now available for implementation by rheumatology fellowship training programs, providing a clear roadmap for specific training goals and a guide to track each fellow's achievement over a 2-year training period. The comprehensive core curriculum delineates the essential breadth of knowledge, skills, and attitudes that define rheumatology, and provides a guide for educational activities during fellowship training. These guiding documents are now used to train and assess fellows as they prepare for independent rheumatology practice as the next generation of rheumatologists.
BACKGROUND Despite the benefits to early palliative care in the treatment of terminal illness, barriers to timely hospice referrals exist. Physicians who are more comfortable having end-of-life (EOL) conversations are more likely to refer to hospice. However, very little is known about what factors influence comfort with EOL care.   METHODS An anonymous survey was sent to all the residents and fellows at a single institution. Self-reported education, experience and comfort with EOL care was assessed. Using multivariate logistic regression analysis, variables that influenced comfort with EOL conversations were analyzed.   RESULTS Most residents (88.1%) reported little to no classroom training on EOL care during residency. EOL conversations during residency were frequent (50.6% reported>10) and mostly unsupervised (61.9%). In contrast, EOL conversations during medical school were infrequent (3.7% reported >10) and mostly supervised (78.6%). Most (54.3%) reported little to no classroom training on EOL care during medical school. Physicians that reported receiving education on EOL conversations during residency and those who had frequent EOL conversations during residency had significantly higher comfort levels having EOL conversations (p=0.017 and p=0.003, respectively). Likewise, residents that felt adequately prepared to have EOL conversations when graduating from medical school were more likely to feel comfortable (p=0.030).   CONCLUSIONS Most residents had inadequate education in EOL conversation skills during medical school and residency. Despite the lack of training, EOL conversations during residency are common and often unsupervised. Those who reported more classroom training during residency on EOL skills had greater comfort with EOL conversations. Training programs should provide palliative care education to all physicians during residency and fellowship, especially for those specialties that are most likely to encounter patients with advanced terminal disease.
OBJECTIVE Readmissions to hospital after discharge are considered adverse, serious and costly outcomes. In the last years, two new scores have been proposed to identify patients at high risk of hospital readmission, the HOSPITAL and the Elders Risk Assessment (ERA) indexes. The aim of this study was to evaluate these two scores and the risk of death among internal medicine readmitted patients.   PATIENTS AND METHODS During a 30-month period, we identified 613 readmitted patients out of 13,237 admissions. Age, sex, length-of-hospital stay (LOS), and deaths were retrospectively analyzed. Readmissions with diagnosis coincident with the index hospitalization were classified as avoidable, whilst those with a different diagnosis were defined as non-avoidable. HOSPITAL score for 30-day potentially avoidable readmission and ERA indexes were calculated.   RESULTS Readmitted patients (56.6% women), were aged 79짹10.4 years. The incidence of 30-day readmission was 20.4 patients/month. Re-hospitalization could be classified as avoidable in 286 cases (46.7%), and death at the end of follow-up was recorded in 366 (59.7%). HOSPITAL score  7 and ERA score  16, both able to identify high risk patients for readmission, were present in 108 (17.6%) and 385 (64.4%) of cases, respectively. Patients with non-avoidable readmissions were older, more frequently female, diabetic, and had higher ERA score than subjects with avoidable readmission. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that non-avoidable readmissions were independently associated with female gender (OR 1.410 [95% CI 1.012-1.964], p=0.042), and age (OR 1.025 [95% CI 1.006-1.043], p=0.01), while only age (OR 1.034 [95% CI 1.015-1.054], p<0.001) and ERA score (OR 1.047 [95% CI 1.001-1.095], p=0.047) were independently associated with death at the end of follow-up.   CONCLUSIONS Although re-hospitalization represents frequent phenomenon related to age, non-avoidable readmissions mainly involve female patients. ERA score appears to be an useful practical tool, able to identify high risk patients.
This article is a continuation in a series of national studies conducted by the American Academy of Family Physicians that reports the performance of family medicine and other primary care specialties in the National Residency Matching Program짰 (NRMP) Main Residency Match, hereafter called the Match. Match data from 1986-2016 were analyzed to compare the numbers of positions offered and filled in family medicine, other primary care specialties, emergency medicine, diagnostic radiology, ophthalmology, anesthesiology, and dermatology (E-ROAD), and other select specialties. Of the 10 largest specialties defined by the greatest number of positions offered in the 2016 Match, all but one (general surgery) have experienced growth since 1986.Overall, the total number of positions offered in the Match grew by an average of 226 positions per year. At the same time, primary care specialties grew 19 positions per year, and E-ROAD specialties grew by 72 positions per year. The disproportionate growth of subspecialties overall, notably the E-ROAD subspecialties, relative to the modest growth of primary care specialties, makes the goal of better health care harder to achieve. The GME portion of physician workforce pipeline is mismatched to the health needs of the nation, and this mismatch is worsening.
OBJECTIVE The objective of the study is to understand and appraise app use by medical students during their clerkships.   METHODS Following Creighton University IRB approval, a voluntary and anonymous paper-based, 15-question survey was distributed to third-year medical students. Data were analyzed using Microsoft Excel.   RESULTS Of 112 medical students available, 76.7% (86) participated in the survey. All participants owned a smartphone or tablet with 84.9% using Apple iOS, followed by 12.8% using Android platform. Students reported using the fewest number of apps during surgery, psychiatry, and obstetrics and gynecology clerkships. The largest number of apps were used during the internal medicine rotation (70.3%). The three most popular apps were Epocrates, UpToDate, and UWorld. The most common uses for these apps were as references during the clerkship, followed by improving knowledge, and test taking. Perceived major benefits included accessibility (96% of student respondents) and interactivity (39.5%). Common apps used during the psychiatry clerkship included UpToDate (71%), Epocrates (51%), and Medscape (43%). Despite less frequent app use during their psychiatry clerkship, 90% felt there was a utility for educational apps in psychiatric education.   CONCLUSIONS Consistent with the previous literature on medical students preferring educational apps, students suggest developers focus on question bank-type apps, followed by clinical support-focused and self-directed case-based learning apps for psychiatry clerkship learning. Educators should factor these modes of educational delivery into future educational app development. This survey shows a high degree of smartphone and tablet use among medical students, and they attest to mobile phone app utility in psychiatric education.
The purpose of the present study was to determine their current levels of burnout and to identify the factors associated with burnout syndrome among assistant physicians who are undergoing further training in medical specialties. The present descriptive study was conducted on assistant physicians at a Turkish university hospital. The participants were subject to a 26-item questionnaire and the Maslach Burnout Inventory (MBI). The mean age of the participants was 29.95 짹 3.79 years. Their mean scores in the three sub-scales of the MBI were as follows: 22.33 짹 8.37 in emotional exhaustion (EE), 8.72 짹 4.74 in depersonalization (D), and 18.76 짹 5.87 in personal accomplishment (PA). While there were no significant discrepancies among the respondents in terms of their mean scores in EE, D and PA depending on their gender, age groups and marital status, those who considered their monthly income levels as 'poor' differed significantly from those who regarded their monthly income levels as 'good' in terms of their mean scores in EE, D, and PA. In addition, there was a significant difference in terms of the mean scores in EE, D, and PA between the participants who were appreciated by their superiors and those who were not. The participants had high, low and average mean scores in EE, PA and D, respectively, suggesting that they had high levels of burnout in reference to EE and PA and average levels of burnout in reference to D.
RATIONALE, AIMS AND OBJECTIVES Evidence-based practice (EBP) is widely promoted, but does EBP produce better patient outcomes? We report a natural experiment when part of the internal medicine service in a hospital was reorganized in 2003 to form an EBP unit, the rest of the service remaining unchanged. The units attended similar patients until 2012 permitting comparisons of outcomes and activity.   METHODS We used routinely collected statistics (2004-11) to compare the two different methods of practice and test whether patients being seen by the EBP unit differed from standard practice (SP) patients. Data were available by doctor and year. To check for differences between the EBP and SP doctors prior to reorganization, we used statistics from 2000 to 2003. We looked for changes in patient outcomes or activity following reorganization and whether the EBP unit was achieving significantly different results from SP. Data across the periods were combined and tested using Mann-Whitney test.   RESULTS No statistically significant differences in outcomes were detected between the EBP and the SP doctors prior to reorganization. Following the unit's establishment, the mortality of patients being treated by EBP doctors compared with their previous performance dropped from 7.4% to 6.3% (P<0.02) and length of stay from 9.15 to 6.01 days (P=0.002). No statistically significant improvements were seen in SP physicians' performance. No differences in the proportion of patients admitted or their complexity between the services were detected. Despite this, EBP patients had a clinically significantly lower risk of death 6.27% versus 7.75% (P<0.001) and a shorter length of stay 6.01 versus 8.46 days (P<0.001) than SP patients. Readmission rates were similar: 14.4% (EBP); 14.5% (SP). EBP doctors attended twice as many patients/doctor as SP doctors.   CONCLUSION The EBP unit was associated with better patient outcomes and more efficient performance than achieved by the same physicians previously or by SP concurrently.
AIM The American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) exam's pass rate is considered a quality measure of a residency program, yet few interventions have shown benefit in reducing the failure rate. We developed a web-based Directed Reading (DR) program with an aim to increase medical knowledge and reduce ABIM exam failure rate.   METHODS Internal medicine residents at our academic medical center with In-Training Examination (ITE) scores  35 th percentile from 2007 to 2013 were enrolled in DR. The program matches residents to reading assignments based on their own ITE-failed educational objectives and provides direct electronic feedback from their teaching physicians. ABIM exam pass rates were analyzed across various groups between 2002 and 2013 to examine the effect of the DR program on residents with ITE scores  35 percentile pre- (2002-2006) and post-intervention (2007-2013). A time commitment survey was also given to physicians and DR residents at the end of the study.   RESULTS Residents who never scored  35 percentile on ITE were the most likely to pass the ABIM exam on first attempt regardless of time period. For those who ever scored  35 percentile on ITE, 91.9% of residents who participated in DR passed the ABIM exam on first attempt vs 85.2% of their counterparts pre-intervention (p < 0.001). This showed an improvement in ABIM exam pass rate for this subset of residents after introduction of the DR program. The time survey showed that faculty used an average of 40짹18 min per week to participate in DR and residents required an average of 25 min to search/read about the objective and 20 min to write a response.   CONCLUSIONS Although residents who ever scored  35 percentile on ITE were more likely to fail ABIM exam on first attempt, those who participated in the DR program were less likely to fail than the historical control counterparts. The web-based teaching method required little time commitment by faculty.
The mission of our department is to contribute to diagnostic improvement in medicine in order to promote better outcomes. We have clinical expertise in internal medicine including primary care medicine, hematology, allergy, rheumatology, and nephrology. We also have expertise in clinical laboratory medicine and hospital infection control. Specific areas of academic interest include immune-mediated hematological diseases, allergic diseases, autoimmune diseases, and chronic kidney disease. Immune recovery following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation and the immunopathophysiology of bone marrow failure syndrome have been our main topics of interest, and we have been applying our knowledge of T-cell receptor diversity to these areas in order to explore the mechanisms of immunodeficiency and autoimmunity in hematological disorders. We have found that the peripheral expansion of mature T cells in grafts plays an important role in immune reconstitution after stem cell transplantation in humans, and have also found altered T-cell repertoires in immune-mediated chronic acquired pure red cell aplasia. Thus, quantitative and qualitative analyses of immune receptors could be a promising method for assessing immunocompetence and exploring the pathophysiology of autoimmune diseases. Research and development of novel approaches in this field should be intensively conducted.
OBJECTIVE There is no published literature about the med-peds hospitalist workforce, physicians dually trained in internal medicine and pediatrics. Our objective was to analyze this subset of physicians by using data from the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) workforce survey to assess practice patterns and workforce demographics. We hypothesized that demographic differences exist between hospitalists and nonhospitalists.   METHODS The AAP surveyed med-peds physicians from the Society of Hospital Medicine and the AAP to define workforce demographics and patterns of practice. We compared self-identified hospitalists with nonhospitalist physicians on multiple characteristics. Almost one-half of the hospitalists self-identified as being both primary care physicians and hospitalists; we therefore also compared the physicians self-identifying as being both primary care physicians and hospitalists with those who identified themselves solely as hospitalists.   RESULTS Of 1321 respondents, 297 physicians (22.4%) self-reported practicing as hospitalists. Hospitalists were more likely than nonhospitalists to have been practicing<10 years (P<.001), be employed by a health care organization (P<.001), work>50 hours per week (P<.001), and see only adults (P<.001) or children (P=.03) in their practice rather than a mix of both groups. Most, 191/229 (83.4%), see both adults and children in practice, and 250/277 (90.3%) stated that their training left them well prepared to practice both adult and pediatric medicine.   CONCLUSIONS Med-peds hospitalists are more likely to be newer to practice and be employed by a health care organization than nonhospitalists and to report satisfaction that their training sufficiently prepared them to see adults and children in practice.
BACKGROUND Topical immunomodulators (TI)-including corticosteroids, calcineurin inhibitors, and vitamin D analogues-are commonly prescribed in multiple specialties, but cost comparisons are lacking.   OBJECTIVE To evaluate differences in costs of TI across specialties and determine associated variables.   METHODS A cross-sectional study was performed using the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 2008 and 2010 Prescription Drug Public Use Profiles, which contain 100% of drug claims made by Medicare beneficiaries.   RESULTS Branded drugs cost an average of $174.02 more than generics per 30-day supply (P혻<혻.001). Differences in health insurance benefit phase, drug choice, brand name, and coverage type were the greatest determinants of patient cost (P혻<혻.001). Prescriptions for low-, medium-, and high-potency TI from specialists (mostly dermatologists) cost more than those from family medicine, internal medicine, and psychiatry/neurology physicians; total costs of a 30-day supply from a specialist differed from family and internal medicine physicians by $7.36-$14.57, and patient costs were higher for specialists by $1.69-$3.16 (P혻<혻.01). Brand names were prescribed 8% of the time by specialists and 1.4%-3.1% by nonspecialists.   LIMITATIONS We were unable to adjust for some confounders of cost, such as medication weight or treated body area, and the data does not reflect previous treatment failures or use by non-Medicare patients.   CONCLUSION The costs of TIs prescribed by specialists (primarily dermatologists) are higher than those prescribed by primary care physicians and could be reduced by choosing more generics within the respective potency classes.
Purpose. Effectiveness of nonpharmacological multicomponent prevention delivered by trained volunteers (medical and psychology students), targeted at delirium risk factors in geriatric inpatients, was assessed at an internal medicine ward in Poland. Patients and Methods. Participants were recruited to intervention and control groups at the internal medicine ward (inclusion criteria: age  75, acute medical condition, basic orientation, and logical contact on admission; exclusion criteria: life expectancy < 24 hours, surgical hospitalization, isolation due to infectious disease, and discharge to other medical wards). Every day trained volunteers delivered a multicomponent standardized intervention targeted at risk factors of in-hospital complications to the intervention group. The control group, selected using a retrospective individual matching strategy (1:1 ratio, regarding age, gender, and time of hospitalization), received standard care. Outcome Measures. Hospitalization time, deaths, falls, delirium episodes, and antipsychotic prescriptions were assessed retrospectively from medical documentation. Results. 130 patients (38.4% males) participated in the study, with 65 in the intervention group. Antipsychotic medications were initiated less frequently in the intervention group compared to the control group. There was a trend towards a shorter hospitalization time and a not statistically significant decrease in deaths in the intervention group. Conclusion. Nonpharmacological multicomponent intervention targeted at delirium risk factors effectively reduced length of hospitalization and need for initiating antipsychotic treatment in elderly patients at the internal medicine ward.
Introduction Under the Next Accreditation System, programs need to find ways to collect and assess meaningful reportable information on its residents to assist the program director regarding resident milestone progression. This paper discusses the process that one large Internal Medicine Residency Program used to provide both quantitative and qualitative data to its clinical competency committee (CCC) through the creation of a resident dashboard. Methods Program leadership at a large university-based program developed four new end of rotation evaluations based on the American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) and Accreditation Council of Graduated Medical Education's (ACGME) 22 reportable milestones. A resident dashboard was then created to pull together both milestone- and non-milestone-based quantitative data and qualitative data compiled from faculty, nurses, peers, staff, and patients. Results Dashboards were distributed to the members of the CCC in preparation for the semiannual CCC meeting. CCC members adjudicated quantitative and qualitative data to present their cohort of residents at the CCC meeting. Based on the committee's response, evaluation scores remained the same or were adjusted. Final milestone scores were then entered into the accreditation data system (ADS) on the ACGME website. Conclusions The process of resident assessment is complex and should comprise both quantitative and qualitative data. The dashboard is a valuable tool for program leadership to use both when evaluating house staff on a semiannual basis at the CCC and to the resident in person.
Purpose The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education restructured its accreditation system to be based on educational outcomes in six core competencies. Systems-based practice is one of the six core competencies. The purpose of this report is to describe Weill Cornell Medical College's Internal Medicine Residency program curriculum for systems-based practice (SBP) and its evaluation process. Methods To examine potential outcomes of the POCHS curriculum, an evaluation was conducted, examining participants': (1) knowledge gain; (2) course ratings; and (3) qualitative feedback. Results On average, there was a 19 percentage point increase in knowledge test scores for all three cohorts. The course was rated overall highly, receiving an average of 4.6 on a 1-5 scale. Lastly, the qualitative comments supported that the material is needed and valued. Conclusion The course, entitled Perspectives on the Changing Healthcare System (POCHS) and its evaluation process support that systems-based practice is crucial to residency education. The course is designed not only to educate residents about the current health care system but also to enable them to think critically about the risk and benefits of the changes. POCHS provides a framework for teaching and assessing this competency and can serve as a template for other residency programs looking to create or restructure their SBP curriculum.
Background The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) requires that training programs integrate system-based practice (SBP) and practice-based learning and improvement (PBLI) into internal medicine residency curricula. Context and setting We instituted a seminar series and year-long-mentored curriculum designed to engage internal medicine residents in these competencies. Methods Residents participate in a seminar series that includes assigned reading and structured discussion with faculty who assist in the development of quality improvement or research projects. Residents pursue projects over the remainder of the year. Monthly works in progress meetings, protected time for inquiry, and continued faculty mentorship guide the residents in their project development. Trainees present their work at hospital-wide grand rounds at the end of the academic year. We performed a survey of residents to assess their self-reported knowledge, attitudes and skills in SBP and PBLI. In addition, blinded faculty scored projects for appropriateness, impact, and feasibility. Outcomes We measured resident self-reported knowledge, attitudes, and skills at the end of the academic year. We found evidence that participants improved their understanding of the context in which they were practicing, and that their ability to engage in quality improvement projects increased. Blinded faculty reviewers favorably ranked the projects' feasibility, impact, and appropriateness. The 'Curriculum of Inquiry' generated 11 quality improvement and research projects during the study period. Barriers to the ongoing work include a limited supply of mentors and delays due to Institutional Review Board approval. Hospital leadership recognizes the importance of the curriculum, and our accreditation manager now cites our ongoing work. Conclusions A structured residency-based curriculum facilitates resident demonstration of SBP and practice-based learning and improvement. Residents gain knowledge and skills though this enterprise and hospitals gain access to trainees who help to solve ongoing problems and meet accreditation requirements.
Background Cultural competence training in residency is important to improve learners' confidence in cross-cultural encounters. Recognition of cultural diversity and avoidance of cultural stereotypes are essential for health care providers. Methods We developed a multimethod approach for cross-cultural training of Internal Medicine residents and evaluated participants' preparedness for cultural encounters. The multimethod approach included (1) a conference series, (2) a webinar with a national expert, (3) small group sessions, (4) a multicultural social gathering, (5) a Grand Rounds presentation on cross-cultural training, and (6) an interactive, online case-based program. Results The program had 35 participants, 28 of whom responded to the survey. Of those, 16 were white (62%), and residents comprised 71% of respondents (n=25). Following training, 89% of participants were more comfortable obtaining a social history. However, prior to the course only 27% were comfortable caring for patients who distrust the US system and 35% could identify religious beliefs and customs which impact care. Most (71%) believed that the training would help them give better care for patients from different cultures, and 63% felt more comfortable negotiating a treatment plan following the course. Conclusions Multimethod training may improve learners' confidence and comfort with cross-cultural encounters, as well as lay the foundation for ongoing learning. Follow-up is needed to assess whether residents' perceived comfort will translate into improved patient outcomes.
Background The meaningful use (MU) of electronic medical records (EMRs) is being implemented in three stages. Key objectives of stage one include electronic analysis of data entered into structured fields, using decision-support tools (e.g., checking drug-drug interactions [DDI]) and electronic information exchange. Objective The authors assessed the performance of medical students on 10 stage-one MU tasks and measured the correlation between students' MU performance and subsequent end-of-clerkship professionalism assessments and their grades on an end-of-year objective structured clinical examination. Participants Two-hundred and twenty-two third-year medical students on the internal medicine (IM) clerkship. Design/main measures From July 2010 to February 2012, all students viewed 15 online tutorials covering MU competencies. The authors measured student MU documentation and performance in the chart of a virtual patient using a fully functional training EMR. Specific MU measurements included, adding: a new problem, a new medication, an advanced directive, smoking status, the results of screening tests; and performing a DDI (in which a major interaction was probable), and communicating a plan for this interaction. Key results A total of 130 MU errors were identified. Sixty-eight (30.6%) students had at least one error, and 30 (13.5%) had more than one (range 2-6). Of the 130 errors, 90 (69.2%) were errors in structured data entry. Errors occurred in medication dosing and instructions (18%), DDI identification (12%), documenting smoking status (15%), and colonoscopy results (23%). Students with MU errors demonstrated poorer performance on end-of-clerkship professionalism assessments (r =-0.112, p=0.048) and lower observed structured clinical examination (OSCE) history-taking skills (r =-0.165, p=0.008) and communication scores (r= - 0.173, p=0.006). Conclusions MU errors among medical students are common and correlate with subsequent poor performance in multiple educational domains. These results indicate that without assessment and feedback, a substantial minority of students may not be ready to progress to more advanced MU tasks.
The promotion of change and growth within medical education is oftentimes the result of a complex mix of societal, cultural and economic forces. Graduate medical education in internal medicine is not immune to these forces. Several entities and organizations can be identified as having a major influence on internal medicine training and graduate medical education as a whole. We have reviewed how this is effectively accomplished through these entities and organizations. The result is a constantly changing and dynamic landscape for internal medicine training.
OBJECTIVE This study sought to determine whether and to what extent medical students with an undergraduate college major in neuroscience, relative to other college majors, pursue psychiatry relative to other brain-based specialties (neurology and neurosurgery) and internal medicine.   METHODS The authors analyzed data from AAMC matriculation and graduation surveys for all students who graduated from US medical schools in 2013 and 2014 (n=29,714). Students who majored in neuroscience, psychology, and biology were compared to all other students in terms of their specialty choice at both time points. For each major, the authors determined rates of specialty choice of psychiatry, neurology, neurosurgery, and, for comparison, internal medicine. This study employed Chi-square statistic to compare odds of various specialty choices among different majors.   RESULTS Among medical students with an undergraduate neuroscience major (3.5% of all medical students), only 2.3% preferred psychiatry at matriculation, compared to 21.5% who chose neurology, 13.1% neurosurgery, and 11% internal medicine. By graduation, psychiatry specialty choice increased to 5.1% among neuroscience majors while choice of neurology and neurosurgery declined. Psychology majors (OR=3.16, 95% CI 2.60-4.47) but not neuroscience majors (OR 1.28, 0.92-1.77) were more likely than their peers to choose psychiatry.   CONCLUSIONS Psychiatry struggles to attract neuroscience majors to the specialty. This missed opportunity is an obstacle to developing the neuroscience literacy of the workforce and jeopardizes the neuroscientific future of our field. Several potential strategies to address the recruitment challenges exist.
BACKGROUND Early detection of undiagnosed HIV infected patients is of paramount importance. The attitude of Italian hospital-based Internal Medicine physicians to prescribe HIV testing following the detection of HIV-associated signs, symptoms and behaviours (triggers) has been reported to be poor. The aim of the study is to quantify the extent of the missed opportunities for early HIV diagnosis in Internal Medicine Departments (IMD).   METHODS Patients admitted to IMD of a General University Hospital in Italy in March-June 2013 were interviewed using a structured questionnaire investigating the presence of triggers for HIV testing, including patient's characteristics, symptoms and conditions associated with HIV infection. HIV tests performed during hospitalisation were recorded.   RESULTS HIV testing was performed in 73 (6.6%) out of 1113 hospitalisations (1072 patients), providing positive results in three cases (4.1%). All of them presented 1 triggers. Conversely, 853 triggers were identified in 528 hospitalisations with at least one trigger (47.4%). The proportion of hospitalisations where an HIV testing was prescribed was 3.1%, 9.5% and 16.0% in the presence of zero, one-to-two or more triggers, respectively. Age <70 years, female gender, length of hospital stay, haematological disease, HBV infection, multiple sexual partners and lymphadenopathy were predictors of HIV testing by logistic regression analysis.   CONCLUSIONS Although chances of an HIV test being performed in patients hospitalised in IMD increases along with the number of triggers, the number of tests being performed in people presenting with triggers is unacceptably low and requires educational interventions in order to obtain individual and public health advantages.
Maintenance of certification (MOC) has long riled the nation&#39;s physicians over what doctors say are costly, burdensome, and frivolous programs. Many physicians also question the financial motives of the certifying boards and debate the impact of MOC on patient outcomes.
Australian internal medicine trainees undergo intensive training in preparation for the Royal Australasian College of Physicians (RACP) clinical examination. Trainees preparing for the 2013 RACP clinical examination assessed the jugular venous pressure (JVP) of patients, with central venous pressure monitoring in the intensive care unit before and after the exam. RACP clinical examination preparation was associated with improvements of trainees' ability to identify JVP that were not elevated, although the JVP examination was performed marginally as a diagnostic test. Ongoing training might further improve this skill.
BACKGROUND Primary care is considered the foundation of an effective health care system. However, primary care departments at academic health centers have numerous challenges to overcome when trying to achieve the Triple Aim.   METHODS As part of an organizational initiative to redesign primary care at a large academic health center, departments of internal medicine, general pediatrics and adolescent medicine, and family medicine worked together to comprehensively redesign primary care. This article describes the process of aligning these three primary care departments: defining panel size, developing a common primary care job description, redesigning the primary care compensation plan, redesigning the care model, and developing standardized staffing.   RESULTS Prior to the initiative, the rate of patient satisfaction was 85%, anticoagulation measurement 65%, pneumococcal vaccination 85%, breast cancer screening 79%, and colorectal cancer screening 69%. These rates all improved to 87%, 75%, 88%, 80%, and 80% respectively. Themes around key challenges to departmental integration are identified: (1) implementing effective communication strategies; (2) addressing specialty differences in primary care delivery; (3) working within resource limitations; and (4) developing long-term sustainability.   CONCLUSIONS Primary care in this large academic health center was transformed through developing a united primary care leadership team that bridged individual departments to create and adopt a common vision and solutions to shared problems. Our collaboration has achieved improvements across patient satisfaction, clinical safety metrics, and publicly-reported preventive care outcomes.   IMPLICATIONS The description of this experience may be useful for other academic health centers or other non-integrated delivery systems undertaking primary care practice transformation.
BACKGROUND Primary care internists are often the first to see patients with an initial episode of crystalline arthritis. Timely aspiration of the affected joint for definitive diagnosis and treatment in the office is desirable but can be difficult, especially if the joint is small, surrounded by soft tissue swelling distorting landmarks, and is very painful to move or palpate.   METHODS We compared the likelihood of successful aspiration of the great toe metatarsophalangeal joint by primary care internists for the diagnosis of potential crystalline arthritis by either landmark identification of the joint space or by employing ultrasound to identify the joint space.   RESULTS Aspiration was performed by one of 2 primary care internists using landmarks and palpation to혻identify the joint space in 27 patients with suspected crystalline arthritis affecting the first metatarsophalangeal joint. A sample adequate for diagnosis by polarized light microscopic crystal analysis was obtained in 14 of the 27 aspirations (52%) when landmarks alone were used to locate the joint space.혻In an additional 27 patients with suspected crystalline arthritis affecting the first metatarsophalangeal joint, ultrasound was used to identify the joint space and resulted in a significant increase in the success of obtaining an adequate diagnostic sample, which was obtained in 25 of the 27 aspirations (93%).   CONCLUSIONS The primary care internist can easily provide quality and timely small joint diagnostic aspiration when ultrasound is used to identify the location of the joint space.
BACKGROUND Attending rounds, the time for the attending physician and the team to discuss the team's patients, take place at teaching hospitals every day, often with little standardization.   OBJECTIVE This hypothesis-generating qualitative study sought to solicit improvement recommendations for standardizing attending rounds from the perspective of a multi-disciplinary group of providers.   METHODS Attending physicians, housestaff (residents and interns), medical students, nurses and pharmacists at an academic medical center participated in a quality improvement initiative between January and April 2013. Participants completed an individual or focus group interview or an e-mail survey with three open-ended questions: (1) What are poor or ineffective practices for attending rounds? (2) How would you change attending rounds structure and function? (3) What do you consider best practices for attending rounds? We undertook content analysis to summarize each clinical stakeholder group's improvement recommendations.   RESULTS Sixty stakeholders participated in our study including 23 attending hospitalists, 24 housestaff, 7 medical students, 2 pharmacists and 4 nurses. Key improvement recommendations included (1) performing a pre-rounds huddle, (2) planning of the visit schedule based on illness or pending discharge, (3) real-time order writing, (4) patient involvement in rounds with shared decision-making, (5) bedside nurse inclusion and (6) minimizing interruption of intern or student presentations.   CONCLUSIONS The practice improvement recommendations identified in this study will require deliberate systems changes and training to implement, and they warrant rigorous evaluation to determine their impact on the clinical and educational goals of rounds.
The incidence of candidemia has increased over the past two decades, with an increased number of cases in Internal Medicine and a prevalence ranging from 24% to 57%. This single-center retrospective study was performed to evaluate the epidemiology and the risk factors associated with mortality of candidemia in patients admitted to Internal Medicine wards (IMWs) of the City of Health and Sciences, Molinette Hospital, Turin, from January 2004 to December 2012. For each patient, demographic, clinical and microbiological data were collected. A case of candidemia was defined as a patient with at least one blood culture positive for Candida spp. Amongst 670 episodes of candidemia, 274 (41%) episodes occurred in IMWs. The mortality was 39% and was associated at multivariate analysis with sepsis, cirrhosis and neurologic diseases, whilst removal of central venous catheter 48h was significantly associated with survival. In the 77 patients treated with early antifungal therapy the mortality was 29% and was not significantly different with caspofungin or fluconazole, whilst in patients with definitive therapy the mortality was significantly lower with echinocandins compared to fluconazole (11.7% Vs. 39%; p=0.0289), a finding confirmed by multivariate analysis. The mortality was significantly associated with sepsis, cirrhosis and neurologic diseases, whilst CVC removal 48h was associated with survival. In patients with early therapy, fluconazole or caspofungin were equally effective. However, echinocandins were significantly more effective as definitive treatment, a finding not explained by differences in treatment delays. Further studies are needed to understand the full potential of these different therapeutic strategies in IMWs.
CONTEXT The American Osteopathic Association requires the integration of osteo-pathic principles and practice in all specialty residency training programs that it accredits, but the 4 residencies with the most integration of osteopathic manipulative medicine (OMM) have differences in training and emphasis on OMM as a primary treatment modality.   OBJECTIVE To study differences in OMM use for spinal pain between the neuro-musculoskeletal medicine/OMM (NMM/OMM), the family practice/osteopath-ic manipulative treatment (FP/OMT), the integrated FP/OMT and NMM/OMM (FP/NMM), and the internal medicine and NMM/OMM (IM/NMM) specialty residency training programs.   METHODS Medical records were reviewed for patient encounters from September 2011 through October 2013 at NMM/OMM, FP/OMT, FP/NMM, and IM/NMM residencies in a family medicine and OMM specialty clinic. Records were screened for a diagnosis of cervicalgia, thoracalgia, lumbago, or backache. The identifed encounters were compared to determine between-specialty differences in the number of chief complaints, non-somatic dysfunction assessments, body regions with diagnosed somatic dysfunction, body regions managed with OMT, and number and type of OMT techniques used.   RESULTS Eighteen residents had 2925 patient encounters that included 1 or more spinal pain diagnoses. Overall, 2767 patients (95%) received OMT. The probability (95% CI) of residents using OMT was 0.99 (0.98-0.99) for the NMM/OMM residents, 0.66 (0.55-0.77) for the FP/OMT residents, 0.94 (0.88-0.97) for the FP/NMM residents, and 0.997 (0.98-1.0) for the IM/NMM residents. The FP/OMT residents were less likely to manage spinal pain using OMT (P&lt;.001) and documented fewer somatic dysfunction assessments and fewer musculoskeletal assessments (P&lt;.001), but they documented significantly more non-somatic dysfunction assessments (P&lt;.001). When using OMT, the FP/OMT residents diagnosed somatic dysfunction in fewer mean (95% CI) body regions (2.9 [2.4-3.5]) than the NMM/OMM (5.5 [4.9-6.2]), the FP/NMM (5.5 [4.8-6.3]), or the IM/NMM (4.6 [3.4-6.0]) residents (P&lt;.001). The FP/OMT residents also managed fewer mean (95% CI) body regions with OMT (3.5 [3.0-4.1]) than the NMM/OMM (5.7 [5.2-6.3]), the FP/NMM (5.6 [5.0-6.3]), or the IM/NMM (4.7 [3.7-6.0]) residents (P&lt;.001).   CONCLUSION Although the FP/OMT residents used OMT less frequently than the other residents during spinal pain encounters, they provided care for a larger number and a wider variety of non-somatic dysfunction assessments.
The Alliance for Academic Internal Medicine, American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM), ABIM Foundation, and American College of Physicians are collaborating to enhance the education of physicians in high-value care (HVC) and make its practice an essential competency in undergraduate and postgraduate education by 2017. This article serves as the organizations' formal commitment to providing a foundation of HVC education on which others may build. The 5 key targets for HVC education are experiential learning and curriculum, environment and culture, clinical support, regulatory requirements, and sustainability. The goal is to train future health care professionals for whom HVC is part of normal practice, thus providing patients with improved clinical outcomes at a lower cost.
Provisions of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) allow millions more Americans to obtain health insurance. However, a sizable number of people remain uninsured because they live in states that have not expanded Medicaid coverage or because they feel that Marketplace coverage is not affordable. Using data from a ten-state telephone survey in which callers posed as patients, we examined prices for primary care visits offered by physician offices to new uninsured patients in 2012-13, prior to ACA insurance expansions. Patients were quoted a mean price of $160. Significantly lower prices for the uninsured were offered by family practice offices compared to general internists, in offices participating in Medicaid managed care plans, and in federally qualified health centers. Prices were also lower for offices in ZIP codes with higher poverty rates. Only 18혻percent of uninsured callers were told that they could bring less than the full amount to the visit and arrange to pay the rest later. ACA insurance expansions could greatly decrease out-of-pocket spending for low-income adults seeking primary care. However, benefits of health reform are likely to be greater in states expanding Medicaid eligibility.
Bedside sonography by non-radiologists is rapidly expanding, presenting modern medicine with challenging professional, medico-legal, financial and logistic aspects. In the current article, we reviewed the relevant literature describing sonography application by internal medicine practitioners and the obstacles that may interfere with large-scale integration of point of care ultrasound imaging. In conclusion, we see a great potential for clinical benefit by internists who will use bedside sonography and we recommend establishing an official training program in the fiell of bedside ultrasonography by internists.
AIMS Despite the increasing prevalence of hospitalized diabetic patients, there are few studies that evaluate the glycemic control and the rate of adherence to clinical practice guidelines for glucose monitoring and management in the hospital setting.   METHODS Crossover study using one-day surveys of all inpatients admitted to internal medicine wards from voluntary participating hospitals across Spain. Retrospective review of medical records was used to identify patients with hyperglycemia, causes for hospitalization, patients' demographic characteristics, appropriateness of glycemic monitoring and treatment during hospitalization.   RESULTS Among 5439 hospitalized patients studied there were 1000 (18.4%) with hyperglycemia in 111 participating hospitals. Patients mean age was 76.0짹8.5 years (51.6% male). On admission, 91% had known diabetes (disease duration of 10.9짹8.5 years), 5% had unknown diabetes and 4% had stress hyperglycemia. The comorbidity index (Charslon score) was 4 (interquartile range: 2 to 6) and 31% showed a high level of disability (Rankin scale). Main infringement in the process of care included lack of a recent HbA1c value (43.7%), use of sliding scale insulin therapy (20.7%), use of oral antidiabetic agents (8.9%), and less than three bedside point-of-care (POC) blood glucose test per day (17%). Glycemic target pre-meal and bedtime were achieved in 47% to 79.5% of POC. The rates of hypoglycemia (<70 mg/dL and <50mg/dL) were 10.3% and 2.4%, respectively.   CONCLUSIONS Our results suggest that there is an important gap between the clinical guidelines and both the management and the grade of glycemic control of diabetic inpatients.
The evaluation of cognitive functions can be performed using two approaches: a quantitative one, based on screening tools; a qualitative one, based on the examination of specific cognitive functions. The quantitative approach offers a pragmatic process: to screen rapidly for a cognitive dysfunction that may require assistance or treatments. We will present three screening tools and their diagnostic value: the clock test, the Mini Mental State Examination and the Montreal Cognitive Assessment. They help select patients who require a more detailed examination to precisely diagnose their cognitive dysfunction. We propose a way to perform a detailed cognitive examination at the bedside, including the examination of alertness, attention, memory, language, frontal functions, praxis and hemi-neglect. This simple examination indicates the location of the cerebral lesion and sometimes suggests the underlying disease.
Dissemination of a medical education innovation, such as mastery learning, from a setting where it has been used successfully to a new and different medical education environment is not easy. This article describes the uneven yet successful dissemination of a simulation-based mastery learning (SBML) curriculum on central venous catheter (CVC) insertion for internal medicine and emergency medicine residents across medical education settings. The dissemination program was grounded in implementation science principles. The article begins by describing implementation science which addresses the mechanisms of medical education and health care delivery. The authors then present a mastery learning case study in two phases: (1) the development, implementation, and evaluation of the SBML CVC curriculum at a tertiary care academic medical center; and (2) the dissemination of the SBML CVC curriculum to an academic community hospital setting. Contextual information about the drivers and barriers that affected the SBML CVC curriculum dissemination is presented. This work demonstrates that dissemination of mastery learning curricula, like all other medical education innovations, will fail without active educational leadership, personal contacts, dedication, hard work, rigorous measurement, and attention to implementation science principles. The article concludes by presenting a set of lessons learned about disseminating an SBML CVC curriculum across different medical education settings.
OBJECTIVES To improve understanding of the logistics of transitions of care (TOC) clinics and to provide guidance to pharmacists in developing and implementing a new TOC clinic혻or improving an existing one.   SETTING Outpatient TOC clinic within an ambulatory care practice.   PRACTICE DESCRIPTION Two general internal medicine practices collaborated with a university health system to create an interdisciplinary TOC clinic to improve quality and continuity of patient care. The clinic accommodates any patients of the practice who are not able to get an appointment with their primary care physician within 1 to 2 weeks of discharge from any hospital. Physician residents, an attending physician, a clinical pharmacist, a nurse, medical assistants, and a social worker (if necessary) are involved in the patient's care during the transition process.   PRACTICE INNOVATION Pharmacists can play a vital role in developing and implementing a TOC clinic or enhancing a current one. There are many logistical components to consider in developing a clinic, and this article provides혻guidance in혻the various steps required in creating a clinic, including support and coordination, personnel, workflow, operations, reimbursement, marketing, metrics, and measures.   CONCLUSION This tool may help pharmacists implement or enhance an outpatient TOC clinic to improve patient care, quality, and continuity.
The impending implementation of the ICD-10 coding system and burdensome regulations spur Austin Internal Medicine Associates to close its doors on Sept. 4, ending 40 years of service and more than 20 years together for its internists - Ace Alsup, MD; Isabel Hoverman, MD; R. Scott Ream, MD; and Frank Robinson, MD. The group set its closing date to avoid anticipated technical difficulties - specifically, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services&#39; requirement that all practices switch to the controversial ICD-10 medical billing and coding system on Oct. 1.
BACKGROUND Oral examinations are a useful tool to appraise certain medical skills compared to other examinations. However, they have some disadvantages that might be reduced with standardization.   AIM To compare students' perception comparing a standardized oral exam (SOE) versus a traditional, non-standardized oral exam (NSOE).   MATERIAL AND METHODS During the first semester of 2013 a NSOE was applied to internal medicine undergraduate students. During the second semester, a SOE was applied. An anonymous and voluntary perception questionnaire, consisting in 10 questions based on a 5-level Likert scale, was answered by these students. Statistical analysis was done using the Mann-Whitney U test.   RESULTS Among the 118 students, 50.8% were evaluated using NSOE and 49.2% using SOE. Questionnaire response rate was 84%. Among respondents, 52% took the SOE and 48%, the NSOE. Students evaluated using SOE perceived that the degree of complexity of clinical cases was similar for all examinees (p < 0.05), that exam duration was standardized (p < 0.05), and that grades obtained were less influenced by the clinical site where the exam was taken (p < 0.05). However, anxiety level remained high in both groups, as well as the overall satisfaction experience.   CONCLUSIONS Standardization of an oral examination improves the perception of medical students about levels of difficulty, duration and external influences on the final grade.
PURPOSE Rating scales are frequently used for scoring assessments in medical education. The effect of changing the structural elements of a rating scale on students' examination scores has received little attention in the medical education literature. This study assessed the impact of making the numerical values of verbal anchors on a rating scale available to examiners in a long case examination (LCE).   METHOD During the 2011-2012 academic year, the numerical values of verbal anchors on a rating scale for an internal medicine clerkship LCE were made available to faculty examiners. Historically, and specifically in the control year of 2010-2011, examiners only saw the scale's verbal anchors and were blinded to the associated numerical values. To assess the impact of this change, the authors compared students' LCE scores between the two cohort years. To assess for differences between the two cohorts, they compared students' scores on other clerkship assessments, which remained the same between the two cohorts.   RESULTS From 2010-2011 (n = 226) to 2011-2012 (n = 218), the median LCE score increased significantly from 82.11% to 85.02% (P < .01). Students' performance on the other clerkship assessments was similar between cohorts.   CONCLUSIONS Providing examiners with the numerical values of verbal anchors on a rating scale, in addition to the verbal anchors themselves, led to a significant increase in students' scores on an internal medicine clerkship LCE. When constructing or changing rating scales, educators must consider the potential impact of the rating scale structure on students' scores.
Mastery learning is a powerful educational strategy in which learners gain knowledge and skills that are rigorously measured against predetermined mastery standards with different learners needing variable time to reach uniform outcomes. Central to mastery learning are repetitive deliberate practice and robust feedback that promote performance improvement. Traditional health care simulation involves a simulation exercise followed by a facilitated postevent debriefing in which learners discuss what went well and what they should do differently next time, usually without additional opportunities to apply the specific new knowledge. Mastery learning approaches enable learners to 'try again' until they master the skill in question. Despite the growing body of health care simulation literature documenting the efficacy of mastery learning models, to date insufficient details have been reported on how to design and implement the feedback and debriefing components of deliberate-practice-based educational interventions. Using simulation-based training for adult and pediatric advanced life support as case studies, this article focuses on how to prepare learners for feedback and debriefing by establishing a supportive yet challenging learning environment; how to implement educational interventions that maximize opportunities for deliberate practice with feedback and reflection during debriefing; describing the role of within-event debriefing or 'microdebriefing' (i.e., during a pause in the simulation scenario or during ongoing case management without interruption), as a strategy to promote performance improvement; and highlighting directions for future research in feedback and debriefing for mastery learning.
BACKGROUND Hospitalists have become dominant providers of inpatient care in many North American hospitals. Despite the global growth of hospital medicine, no objective method has been proposed for defining the hospitalist discipline and delineating among inpatient practices on the basis of physicians' clinical volumes. We propose a functional method of identifying hospital-based physicians using aggregated measures of inpatient volume and apply this method to a retrospective, population-based cohort to describe the growth of the hospitalist movement, as well as the prevalence and practice characteristics of hospital-based generalists in one Canadian province.   METHODS We used human resource databases and financial insurance claims to identify all active fee-for-service physicians working in Ontario, Canada, between fiscal year 1996/1997 and fiscal year 2010/2011. We constructed 3 measures of inpatient volume from the insurance claims to reflect the time that physicians spent delivering inpatient care in each fiscal year. We then examined how inpatient volumes have changed for Ontario physicians over time and described the prevalence of full-time and part-time hospital-based generalists working in acute care hospitals in fiscal year 2010/2011.   RESULTS Our analyses showed a significant increase since fiscal year 2000/2001 in the number of high-volume hospital-based family physicians practising in Ontario (p < 0.001) and associated decreases in the numbers of high-volume internists and specialists (p = 0.03), where high volume was defined as  2000 inpatient services/ year. We estimated that 620 full-time and 520 part-time hospital-based physicians were working in Ontario hospitals in 2010/2011, accounting for 4.5% of the active physician workforce (n = 25 434). Hospital-based generalists, consisting of 207 family physicians and 130 general internists, were prevalent in all geographic regions and hospital types and collectively delivered 10% of all inpatient evaluation and care coordination for Ontario residents who had been admitted to hospital.   INTERPRETATION These analyses confirmed a substantial increase in the prevalence of general hospitalists in Ontario from 1996 to 2011. Systems-level analyses of clinical practice data represent a practical and valid method for defining and identifying hospital-based physicians.
BACKGROUND Harassment and abuse are forms of persistent intimidating behavior against a person and in medical practice those are accepted and justified at all levels of education and are considered specific to the hospital culture.   OBJECTIVE To identify the frequency of harassment and some factors related to its existence on residents of medical specialties in Mexico City.   METHOD A linear study was carried out in which a total of 260 interns pertaining to the following medical specialties: surgery, internal medicine, gynecology and obstetrics, and pediatrics participated. The study took place in three general hospitals in Mexico City. Two evaluations with Leymann Inventory of Psychological-Terrorization (LIPT-60) with 6 months between assessments were performed.   RESULTS Comparison between the first and second evaluations did not show differences in any of the harassment measurements obtained. Of all residents, 265 (98.5%) claimed to have experienced some type of harassing behavior against them at least once during the previous 6 months, with a 1.4 (짹0.5) average intensity, showing no difference between men and women. Women received a higher grade than men on the communication block scale. Harassing behaviors that obtained the highest average values were evident intimidation and occupational discredit. Among all harassment measurements, the specialty of gynecology and obstetrics showed the highest grade. The hospital influenced the reported harassment.   CONCLUSIONS The most common harassing behaviors were occupational discredit, verbal threats, shouting, and mockery. The high frequency of harassment that medical residents experience during their hospital training deserves our attention.
Acinetobacter baumannii (A. baumannii) is one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in patients who are in critical condition in hospitals and especially in intensive care units (ICU). Long time considered a bacterium with low virulence, A. baumannii has more recently become a cause for major concern in clinical practice due to its high level of antimicrobial resistance. The extend of infections with Acinetobacter baumannii in ICU is caused by multiple factors, such as mechanical ventilation, invasive procedures, the use of a large number of broad spectrum antibiotics and transmission through the hands of medical staff In this study we evaluated the resistance to antibiotics of 213 non-duplicated strains of A. baumannii isolated in the bacteriology laboratory of the 'Marius Nasta' lnstitute of Pneumophtisiology (IPMN) from January 2012 to December 2013. These strains originated from patients in medical wards (56), ICU (143) and surgery (14). Strains identification was performed by classical methods on multitest media and with API kits (Bio Merieux). The antibiotic sensitivity was performed on Mueller-Hinton media in accordance with CLSI2013. Analysis of the resistance to antibiotics was the following: carbenicilin (87.3%), ceftriaxone (87.3%), cefoperazone with sulbactam (84.9%), ceftazidime (79.3%), carbapenems (imipenem and/or meropenem--75.1%), fluoroquinolones (ciprofloxacin and/orlevofloxacin--73.7%), cefepime (66.6%), piperacilin with tazobactam (62.4%), amikacin (50.2%), netilmicin (45%), gentamicin (42.7%) and tobramycin (35.6%). In our study, we only found two strains of Acinetobacter baumannii with resistance to colistin and 70 (32.8%) strains sensitive only to colistin, but resistant to all other antibiotics tested. A. baumannii is a pathogen with rapid spread and extended resistance to even newer antimicrobial agents. Due to its ability to survive in the hospital environment, A. baumannii has the immense potential to cause nosocomial infections. We did not find significant differences between the antibiotic resistance of strains isolated from ICU patients and those obtained from medical or surgical wards. This study has also shown that there is a high number of A. baumannii strains with resistance to almost all antibiotics tested, notably with the exception of colistin, wich therefore becomes the antibiotic of choice in the treatment of these infections. The marked increase in the number of multidrug resistant A. baumannii strains highlights the need for a more rational use of broad spectrum antibiotics, as well as for an immediate review of infections control protocols, so as to limit the spread of this pathogen.
OBJECTIVE To obtain an insight into how internists and residents use quality assessments and their opinions on these assessments.   DESIGN Questionnaire survey.   METHOD All 139 internists and residents who attended a national training day on internal medicine in 2012 were invited to answer questions anonymously on the actual use of various quality assessments and to give their opinion on these assessments. The questionnaire consisted of closed and free text questions. The answers were analysed using descriptive statistics. The qualitative information was analysed together by the investigators.   RESULTS In total 123 doctors (88% of the 139 attendants at the training day) from 45 training hospitals (74% of all internal medicine residency training programs) participated in this study. All respondents had recently participated as an individual or as a member of a group in one or more quality assessments. Medical departments and group practices carried out quality assessments more often than required in many cases. Respondents recognised and acknowledged the advantages of quality assessments. The disadvantages of quality assessments related to the methods, the ways assessments were used and undesirable effects. Most of the medical departments and group practices developed policies on how to follow up on the assessment results. Individual performance data was also discussed in the majority of cases.   CONCLUSION Internists (whether or not undergoing training) make extensive and intensive use of quality assessments. The benefits and the weaknesses of quality assessments are both acknowledged. Proactive efforts are required so that improvements can be made in addition to the assessments.
PURPOSE To quantify the prevalence of social and behavioral sciences (SBS) topics during patient care and to rate team response to these topics once introduced.   METHOD This cross-sectional study used five independent raters to observe 80 inpatient ward teams on internal medicine and pediatric services during attending rounds at two academic hospitals over a five-month period. Patient-level primary outcomes-prevalence of SBS topic discussions and rate of positive responses to discussions-were captured using an observational tool and summarized at the team level using hierarchical models. Teams were scored on patient- and learner-centered behaviors.   RESULTS Observations were made of 80 attendings, 83 residents, 75 interns, 78 medical students, and 113 allied health providers. Teams saw a median of 8.0 patients per round (collectively, 622 patients), and 97.1% had at least one SBS topic arise (mean = 5.3 topics per patient). Common topics were pain (62%), nutrition (53%), social support (52%), and resources (39%). After adjusting for team characteristics, the number of discussion topics raised varied significantly among the four services and was associated with greater patient-centeredness. When topics were raised, 38% of teams' responses were positive. Services varied with respect to learner- and patient-centeredness, with most services above average for learner-centered, and below average for patient-centered behaviors.   CONCLUSIONS Of 30 SBS topics tracked, some were addressed commonly and others rarely. Multivariable analyses suggest that medium-sized teams can address SBS concerns by increasing time per patient and consistently adopting patient-centered behaviors.
PURPOSE Social judgment research suggests that rater unreliability in performance assessments arises from raters' differing inferences about the performer and the underlying reasons for the performance observed. These varying social judgments are not entirely idiosyncratic but, rather, tend to partition into a finite number of distinct subgroups, suggesting some 'signal' in the 'noise' of interrater variability. The authors investigated the proportion of variance in Mini-CEX ratings attributable to such partitions of raters' social judgments about residents.   METHOD In 2012 and 2013, physicians reviewed video-recorded patient encounters for seven residents, completed a Mini-CEX, and described their social judgments of the residents. Additional participants sorted these descriptions, which were analyzed using latent partition analysis (LPA). The best-fitting set of partitions for each resident served as an independent variable in a one-way ANOVA to determine the proportion of variance explained in Mini-CEX ratings.   RESULTS Forty-eight physicians rated at least one resident (34 assessed all seven). The seven sets of social judgments were sorted by 14 participants. Across residents, 2 to 5 partitions (mode: 4) provided a good LPA fit, suggesting that subgroups of raters were making similar social judgments, while different causal explanations for each resident's performance existed across subgroups. The partitions accounted for 9% to 57% of the variance in Mini-CEX ratings across residents (mean = 32%).   CONCLUSIONS These findings suggest that multiple 'signals' do exist within the 'noise' of interrater variability in performance-based assessment. It may be valuable to understand and exploit these multiple signals rather than try to eliminate them.
BACKGROUND The authors' previous study found that despite caring for many patients with addiction, most Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) internal medicine residents feel unprepared to treat substance use disorders (SUDs) and rate SUD instruction during training as fair or poor. This follow-up study evaluates the impact of an enhanced curriculum on resident perceptions of the quality of instruction, knowledge base, and self-perceived preparedness to diagnose and treat SUDs.   METHODS Based on the findings of the earlier study, an enhanced SUD curriculum was designed and delivered to MGH medicine residents. Impact of the curriculum was evaluated using the same Web-based survey that was administered in the earlier study to compare pre- and posttest results.   RESULTS The authors' earlier study found that 75% of residents felt prepared to diagnose and 37% to treat SUDs and 45% of residents rated the overall quality of SUD instruction as good or excellent. Following the curriculum intervention, 87% of residents reported feeling prepared to diagnose (P=.028) and 60% to treat (P=.002) SUDs. Three quarters of residents rated the overall quality of instruction as good or excellent (P<.001), and 98% reported residency curriculum had a positive impact on their preparedness to care for patients with a SUDs. Residents who reported receiving an adequate amount of SUD instruction were more likely to feel prepared to diagnose and treat addiction (P<.001). Thirty-one percent of residents still rated the overall amount of SUD instruction as too little. The intervention did not significantly improve answers to knowledge questions.   CONCLUSIONS An enhanced SUDs curriculum for medicine residents increased self-perceived preparedness to diagnose and treat SUDs and educational quality ratings. However, there was no significant change in knowledge. Implementation of a more comprehensive curriculum and evaluation at other sites are necessary to determine the ideal SUD training model.
BACKGROUND The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) introduced new work hour limitations in July 2011.   PURPOSES The aim is to assess internal medicine residents' perspectives on the impact of these limitations on their ability to discharge patient care duties.   METHODS An anonymous survey was administered to 158 medicine residents in an urban university-affiliated internal medicine residency program. Residents' perspectives on various aspects of patient care were recorded on a 5-point Likert-type scale.   RESULTS The response rate was 62%. The majority of residents (80%) agreed that patients had adequate continuity of care. Most residents agreed that they had enough time to follow up on consult notes (64% agreed) and investigations (80% agreed) daily. Most PGY-1 residents (59%) reported having enough time to prepare sign-outs. Most (60%) residents felt that reducing handoffs would improve patient care.   CONCLUSIONS Most residents believe that the new work hour limitations would continue to uphold patient safety, but handoffs in care must be restricted.
BACKGROUND Primary care physicians (PCPs) are an important part of the decision-making process in the care of patients with cancer. The survey discussed herein evaluates what percentage of academic and community PCPs recognize benefits from systemic therapy in lung and breast cancers.   METHODS PCPs were surveyed regarding their beliefs toward systemic therapy in early- and late-stage lung and breast cancers and were asked to rate the importance of specific factors that influence their referral decisions.   RESULTS A total of 3444 surveys were distributed, and 316 physicians (9.1%) responded: 89 academic physicians (28%) and 227 nonacademic physicians (72%). The rate of returned surveys was equal by specialty. A total of 57%, 42.1% in lung cancer and 72.6 % in breast cancer (P < 0.001) of PCPs, believe in the curative effect of systemic therapy in early stages. Sixty-six percent (58.2% in lung cancer and 75.5% in breast cancer [P < 0.001]) believe in improved disease-free survival. Although 82% believe that systemic therapy can prevent symptoms and prolong life in advanced asymptomatic disease, half (lung cancer 50.8%, breast cancer 53.1% [P = 0.5]) of the PCPs would refer symptomatic patients with advanced disease to palliative care before referral to an oncologist. The type and stage of cancer, as well as the patient's desire or reluctance to be referred to an oncologist were rated by PCPs as the most important reasons to refer patients to an oncologist (P < 0.0001).   CONCLUSIONS Although a majority of PCPs in academia and the community acknowledge the positive effect of chemotherapy, the benefit of systemic therapy for early-stage lung cancer is less appreciated as compared with breast cancer. Patients' preferences influence PCPs significantly in the decision to refer patients to an oncologist.
BACKGROUND The MISSED score was derived and validated in emergency department (ED) patients with sepsis who were admitted to the ICU. This score has now been refined and simplified. The independent variables associated with mortality are age at least 65 years, serum albumin 27 g/l or less, and an international normalized ratio at least 1.3. The simplified MISSED score ranges from 0 to 3 depending on the number of variables present.   OBJECTIVE The primary objective is to validate the simplified MISSED score for predicting all-cause mortality in the ED population admitted with sepsis. The secondary end-point is to validate the risk stratification for ICU admission.   METHODS This is a pragmatic retrospective study of prospectively collected data. ED patients admitted with a diagnosis of sepsis in the year 2012 were studied. Those on warfarin were excluded. The simplified MISSED score was calculated for each patient. The test characteristics for mortality of the simplified MISSED score and the odds ratios of the high-risk groups for the secondary end-point were calculated.   RESULTS In total, 674 patients, including 65 deaths, were studied. The area under the curve for the simplified MISSED score was 0.74 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.70-0.77; P<0.0001]. The test characteristics for mortality were as follows: sensitivity 93.9% (95% CI 85-98.3), specificity 37.9% (95% CI 34.1-41.9), positive predictive value 13.9% (95% CI 10.8-17.5), and negative predictive value 98.3% (95% CI 95.7-99.5). The odds ratio for mortality for a score 2 or more was 5.01 (95% CI 2.93-8.57; P<0.0001), and that for ICU admission was 3.00 (95% CI 1.70-5.28; P=0.0001).   CONCLUSION The simplified MISSED score could be used to risk stratify septic patients in the ED.
BACKGROUND Doctors, especially doctors-in-training such as residents, make errors. They have to face the consequences even though today's approach to errors emphasizes systemic factors. Doctors' individual characteristics play a role in how medical errors are experienced and dealt with. The role of gender has previously been examined in a few quantitative studies that have yielded conflicting results. In the present study, we sought to qualitatively explore the experience of female residents with respect to medical errors. In particular, we explored the coping mechanisms displayed after an error. This study took place in the internal medicine department of a Swiss university hospital.   METHODS Within a phenomenological framework, semi-structured interviews were conducted with eight female residents in general internal medicine. All interviews were audiotaped, fully transcribed, and thereafter analyzed.   RESULTS Seven main themes emerged from the interviews: (1) A perception that there is an insufficient culture of safety and error; (2) The perceived main causes of errors, which included fatigue, work overload, inadequate level of competences in relation to assigned tasks, and dysfunctional communication; (3) Negative feelings in response to errors, which included different forms of psychological distress; (4) Variable attitudes of the hierarchy toward residents involved in an error; (5) Talking about the error, as the core coping mechanism; (6) Defensive and constructive attitudes toward one's own errors; and (7) Gender-specific experiences in relation to errors. Such experiences consisted in (a) perceptions that male residents were more confident and therefore less affected by errors than their female counterparts and (b) perceptions that sexist attitudes among male supervisors can occur and worsen an already painful experience.   CONCLUSIONS This study offers an in-depth account of how female residents specifically experience and cope with medical errors. Our interviews with female residents convey the sense that gender possibly influences the experience with errors, including the kind of coping mechanisms displayed. However, we acknowledge that the lack of a direct comparison between female and male participants represents a limitation while aiming to explore the role of gender.
INTRODUCTION Burn victims and their families are faced with an unexpected, life changing injury, and they don't have the necessary time to adjust to the trauma. Even though there is extensive literature exploring the attitudes of intensive care physicians on forgoing life-sustaining treatment, little is known about end-of-life practices in specialised burn intensive care units (ICUs). The aim of this study was to evaluate physician beliefs, values, considerations and difficulties in end-of-life decisions in burn ICUs.   METHODS Two hundred and fifty questionnaires were distributed via electronic mail to burn specialists, randomly selected from the directories of the 45(th) annual meeting of American Burn Association and the 15(th) European Burns Association Congresses.   RESULTS A moral difference between withdrawing and withholding was stated by 73% of physicians, with withholding being viewed as more preferable (42% vs 37%). Primary reasons given by physicians for the decision to withhold/withdraw the treatment were the patient's medical condition/high probability of death (68%), unresponsiveness to therapy (68%), severity of burn (78%) and poor outcome in terms of quality of life (44%). Vasopressors (85%), blood products (68%) and renal replacement therapy (85%) were the common modalities withheld/withdrawn. Almost 50% involved the patients in the end-of-life decisions and 66% involved the family.   CONCLUSIONS In this first international study on end-of-life attitudes, burn ICU physicians clearly distinguish between withhold and withdrawal decisions, with the majority preferring the former. In contrast to general ICUs, treatment limitation accounts only for the minority of the deaths.
BACKGROUND The explicit use of race in medical decision making is contested. Researchers have hypothesized that physicians use race in care when they are uncertain.   OBJECTIVES The aim of this study was to investigate whether physician anxiety due to uncertainty (ADU) is associated with a higher propensity to use race in medical decision making.   RESEARCH DESIGN This study included a national cross-sectional survey of general internists.   SUBJECTS A national sample of 1738 clinically active general internists drawn from the SK&A physician database were included in the study.   MEASURES ADU is a 5-item measure of emotional reactions to clinical uncertainty. Bonham and Sellers Racial Attributes in Clinical Evaluation (RACE) scale includes 7 items that measure self-reported use of race in medical decision making. We used bivariate regression to test for associations between physician characteristics, ADU, and RACE. Multivariate linear regression was performed to test for associations between ADU and RACE while adjusting for potential confounders.   RESULTS The mean score on ADU was 19.9 (SD=5.6). Mean score on RACE was 13.5 (SD=5.6). After adjusting for physician demographics, physicians with higher levels of ADU scored higher on RACE (+棺=0.08 in RACE, P=0.04, for each 1-point increase in ADU), as did physicians who understood 'race' to mean biological or genetic ancestral, rather than sociocultural, group. Physicians who graduated from a US medical school, completed fellowship, and had more white patients scored lower on RACE.   CONCLUSIONS This study demonstrates positive associations between physicians' ADU, meanings attributed to race, and self-reported use of race in medical decision making. Future research should examine the potential impact of these associations on patient outcomes and health care disparities.
UNLABELLED The Spontaneous Bacterial Peritonitis (SBP) is a severe complication of cirrhosis. The prognosis depends on the time of initiation of therapy that is required for early diagnosis.   OBJECTIVE To evaluate the performance of diagnostic paracentesis (DP) in cirrhotic patients with ascites during hospitalization.   MATERIALS AND METHODS An observational, analytical, prospective, study conducted during October 2009 to June 2010.   RESULTS There were 92 income, average age was 60.3 years (SD 11.7), corresponding to 57.6% men, the most common etiology of CH was alcohol (48.9%). There were 40 PD (43.5%), of which 35% positive SBP. Of the DP, 47.5% were performed on admission and / or submission of warning signs. The average period of hospitalization was higher in those who underwent late DP. The MELD score both at admission and discharge was significantlyhigher in patients on admission punctured.   CONCLUSION DP was done in less than half of hospitalized cirrhotic, and its timely completion only 1 in 5 of revenues. The DP perform at the right time reduces hospital days.
Palliative care specialists focus on meeting the needs of patients with serious and/or life-threatening illnesses. These physicians have expertise in managing complex pain and nonpain symptoms, providing psychosocial and spiritual support to patients and their families, and communicating about complex topics and advance care planning. The American Board of Medical Specialties has allowed 10 of its member boards to co-sponsor certification in Hospice and Palliative Medicine. Thus, physicians from specialties ranging from pediatrics to surgery now practice hospice and palliative medicine. At the core of this field, however, are physicians who trained as internists and are boarded by the American Board of Internal Medicine. This article discusses the central principles of palliative care and explores its growth in two areas: oncology and critical care medicine.
CONTEXT During clerkships, teaching and learning in day-to-day activities occur in many moments of interaction among doctors, patients, peers and other co-workers. How people talk with one another influences their identity, their position and what they are allowed to do. This paper focuses on the opportunities and challenges of such moments of interaction between doctors and students during a clerkship characterised by short supervisory relationships.   METHODS This study was conducted in a 10-week internal medicine clerkship. Nine students and 10 doctors who worked with these nine students participated by regularly describing moments of interaction, using dictaphones. We performed critical discourse analysis of material sourced from a total of 184 audio diary entries and seven student debriefing interviews to reveal how participants discursively shaped the way they could think, speak and conduct themselves.   RESULTS The ways in which doctors and students posed and answered questions represented a recurrent and influential feature in the diaries. This Question and Answer dynamic revealed six discourses of Basic Learning Need, Care and Attention, Power Game, Exchange of Currency, Distance, and Equality and Reciprocity. These discourses and the interplay among them revealed both students' and doctors' frameworks of needs and expectations in a culturally defined power structure. The interplay among the discourses reflected the ways in which doctor-student interactions afforded meaningful contributions to their medical or educational practice such as in the exchange of authentic professional or personal experience.   CONCLUSIONS By purposefully bringing power structures to the surface, we have addressed the complexity of learning and teaching as it occurs in day-to-day moments of interaction in a clerkship with little continuity in supervision. Both doctors and students should be supported to reflect critically on how they contribute to supervisory relationships with reference to, for example, the ways in which they ask or answer questions.
The British Junior Cardiologists' Association surveyed members to analyse their perception and experience of training. Cardiology trainees perceive significant limitations with the current training structure. This article gives suggestions which could lead to improvements in training and patient care.
AIM To examine differences in the types of teaching activities performed during rounds between the most effective and least effective inpatient teaching attendings.   METHODS Participants included 56 attending physicians supervising 279 trainees. Trained observers accompanied teams during rounds and recorded the frequencies of educational activities that occurred. Students and residents then rated their satisfaction with the teaching on rounds.   RESULTS Attending physicians with the highest learner satisfaction scores performed significantly more teaching activities per patient than attending physicians who were rated as average or less-effective (2.1 vs. 1.4 vs. 1.5; p=.03). There were significant differences in the frequencies of 3 out of the 9 specific teaching activities observed, including answering specific patient-care related questions (77% vs. 66% vs. 47%; p=.003), teaching on learner chosen topics (8% vs. 2% vs. 2%; p=.02), and providing feedback (31% vs. 10% vs. 0.1%; p=.001).   CONCLUSIONS Specific categories of teaching activities-patient-specific teaching, teaching on learner-identified topics, and providing real-time feedback-are performed more frequently by the highest-rated attending physicians, which can guide faculty development.
The sex hormone binding globulin(SHBG) is a protein produced mainly in the liver that binds sex steroid hormones and thereby regulates their bioavailability. Many studies do correlate low levels in many diseases including diabetes mellitus and the metabolic syndrome with associated risks to the development of cardiovascular diseases. According to some jobs low SHBG can predict the onset of diabetes mellitus; based on other study that a healthy lifestyle can increase SHBG values.
Herpes zoster ophthalmicus occurs due to reactivation of the varicella zoster virus in the ophthalmic branch of the fifth cranial nerve. This disease primarily affects the elderly as well as the immunocompromised and can result in a wide range of ophthalmic morbidity. Systemic antiviral therapy is the mainstay of treatment; however, consultation with an ophthalmologist is typically indicated. Herein we present a review of this common entity including epidemiology, pathophysiology, evaluation, treatment, follow-up, and an update on the current body of literature.
Esophageal cancer (EC) is one of common malignant tumors, and the incidence and mortality of EC in China rank the first place in the world. Because of the occult onset, the early atypical symptoms, and the lack of effective early diagnostic methods, most of patients are diagnosed at an advanced stage of the disease and lost the chance of surgery. Comprehensive treatment including palliative medical treatment, molecular targeted therapy, immunotherapy and so on is appropriate for these patients. How to choose the chemotherapy regimen and formulate reasonable treatment plan has become a hot spot in clinical research. Molecular targeted drugs have become a new developmental direction in cancer treatment because of their high specificity and antitumor activity, but the effects on esophageal cancer remain controversial. With the development of immune check point blockade treatment, breakthrough has been made in tumor immunotherapy, which has become an important means in cancer comprehensive treatment and shown a good prospect of treatment.
Objective The study aimed to illustrate the effect of the patients' sex, age, self-rated health and medical practice specialization on patient satisfaction.   Design Secondary analysis of patient survey data using multilevel analysis (generalized linear mixed model, medical practice as random effect) using a sequential modelling strategy. We examined the effects of the patients' sex, age, self-rated health and medical practice specialization on four patient satisfaction dimensions: medical practice organization, information, interaction, professional competence.   Setting The study was performed in 92 German medical practices providing ambulatory care in general medicine, internal medicine or gynaecology.   Participants In total, 9888 adult patients participated in a patient survey using the validated 'questionnaire on satisfaction with ambulatory care-quality from the patient perspective [ZAP]'.   Main outcome measure(s) We calculated four models for each satisfaction dimension, revealing regression coefficients with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for all independent variables, and using Wald Chi-Square statistic for each modelling step (model validity) and LR-Tests to compare the models of each step with the previous model.   Results The patients' sex and age had a weak effect (maximum regression coefficient 1.09, CI 0.39; 1.80), and the patients' self-rated health had the strongest positive effect (maximum regression coefficient 7.66, CI 6.69; 8.63) on satisfaction ratings. The effect of medical practice specialization was heterogeneous.   Conclusions All factors studied, specifically the patients' self-rated health, affected patient satisfaction. Adjustment should always be considered because it improves the comparability of patient satisfaction in medical practices with atypically varying patient populations and increases the acceptance of comparisons.
BACKGROUND The clinical characteristics of internal medicine ward (IMW) patients with candidemia are unclear. The aim of this study was to define the clinical characteristics of candidemic IMW patients and to study the incidence, species distribution, and outcomes of these patients compared to surgical and intensive care unit (ICU) candidemic patients.   METHODS A retrospective cohort of candidemic patients in IMWs, general surgery wards, and an ICU at Beilinson Hospital during the period 2007-2014 was analyzed.   RESULTS A total of 118 patients with candidemia were identified in six IMWs, two general surgery wards, and one ICU in the hospital. Candida albicans was the leading causative agent (41.1%). Higher proportions of Candida parapsilosis and Candida tropicalis isolates were observed in the IMW patients. IMW patients were significantly older, with poorer functional capacity, and had more frequently been exposed to antibiotic therapy within 90 days, in particular 棺-lactam-棺-lactamase inhibitor combinations and cephalosporins. At onset of candidemia, a significantly lower number of IMW patients were mechanically ventilated (p<0.01); these patients did not have central line catheters comparable to ICU and surgical patients (p<0.001). They were less likely to receive adequate antifungal therapy within 48h, and this was the only significant predictor of survival in these patients (p=0.028): hazard ratio 3.7 (95% confidence interval 1.14-12.5) for therapy delayed to >48h.   CONCLUSIONS IMW candidemic patients account for a substantial proportion of candidemia cases and have unique characteristics and high mortality rates.
The economic crisis, the growing healthcare demand, and Defensive Medicine wastefulness, strongly recommend the restructuring of the entire medical network. New health technology, such as bedside ultrasonography, might successfully integrate the clinical approach optimizing the use of limited resources, especially in a person-oriented vision of medicine. Bedside ultrasonography is a safe and reliable technique, with worldwide expanding employment in various clinical settings, being considered as 'the stethoscope of the 21st century'. However, at present, bedside ultrasonography lacks economic analysis. We performed a Cost-Benefit Analysis 'ex ante', with a break-even point computing, of bedside ultrasonography implementation in an Internal Medicine department in the mid-term. Number and kind estimation of bedside ultrasonographic studies were obtained by a retrospective study, whose data results were applied to the next 3-year period (foresight study). All 1980 foreseen bedside examinations, with prevailing multiorgan ultrasonographic studies, were considered to calculate direct and indirect costs, while specific and generic revenues were considered only after the first semester. Physician professional training, equipment purchase and working time represented the main fixed and variable cost items. DRG increase/appropriateness, hospitalization stay shortening and reduction of traditional ultrasonography examination requests mainly impacted on calculated revenues. The break-even point, i.e. the volume of activity at which revenues exactly equal total incurred costs, was calculated to be 734 US examinations, corresponding to  81,998 and the time considered necessary to reach it resulting 406 days. Our economic analysis clearly shows that bedside ultrasonography implementation in clinical daily management of an Internal Medicine department can produce consistent savings, or economic profit according to managerial choices (i.e., considering public or private targets), other than evident medical benefits.
OBJECTIVES This article presents the results of a national survey addressing issues related to patients with limited English proficiency.   METHODS We disseminated a national confidential survey to 391 program directors of Internal Medicine residency programs accredited by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education.   RESULTS Seventy percent of program directors indicated that their residents cared for a patient population that was composed of more than 10% limited-English-proficiency patients. Nineteen percent of residency programs provided no education on caring for patients with limited English proficiency. Thirty percent of program directors felt that their faculty could not adequately evaluate residents on their ability to practice culturally competent care, and 68% cited lack of faculty expertise as a significant barrier to implementing a curriculum in cultural competency. Yet only 24% indicated that they had faculty development relevant to cultural competency and health care disparities.   CONCLUSIONS Internal Medicine residents care for many patients with limited English proficiency. While it seems clear that an effective training curriculum is necessary, such a curriculum was not found to be uniformly present. Additionally, the lack of faculty expertise and faculty development in cultural competency and health care disparities is a significant barrier to the correction of this problem.
BACKGROUND There is limited research on whether online formative self-assessment and learning can change the behavior of medical professionals.   OBJECTIVE We sought to determine if an adaptive longitudinal online curriculum in bone health would improve resident physicians' knowledge, and change their behavior regarding prevention of fragility fractures in women.   METHODS We used a randomized control trial design in which 50 internal medicine resident physicians at a large academic practice were randomized to either receive a standard curriculum in bone health care alone, or to receive it augmented with an adaptive, longitudinal, online formative self-assessment curriculum delivered via multiple-choice questions. Outcomes were assessed 10 months after the start of the intervention. Knowledge outcomes were measured by a multiple-choice question examination. Clinical outcomes were measured by chart review, including bone density screening rate, calculation of the fracture risk assessment tool (FRAX) score, and rate of appropriate bisphosphonate prescription.   RESULTS Compared to the control group, residents participating in the intervention had higher scores on the knowledge test at the end of the study. Bone density screening rates and appropriate use of bisphosphonates were significantly higher in the intervention group compared with the control group. FRAX score reporting did not differ between the groups.   CONCLUSIONS Residents participating in a novel adaptive online curriculum outperformed peers in knowledge of fragility fracture prevention and care practices to prevent fracture. Online adaptive education can change behavior to improve patient care.
BACKGROUND Little is known about the advice fourth-year medical students receive from their advisors as they prepare to apply for residency training.   OBJECTIVE We collected information on recommendations given to medical students preparing to apply to internal medicine residencies regarding fourth-year schedules and application strategies.   METHODS Clerkship Directors in Internal Medicine conducted its annual member survey in June 2013. We analyzed responses on student advising using descriptive and comparative statistics, and free-text responses using content analysis.   RESULTS Of 124 members, 94 (76%) responded, and 83 (88%) advised fourth-year medical students. Nearly half (45%) advised an average of more than 20 students a year. Advisors encouraged students to take a medicine subinternship (Likert scale mean 4.84 [1, strongly discourage, to 5, strongly encourage], SD = 0.61); a critical care rotation (4.38, SD = 0.79); and a medicine specialty clinical rotation (4.01, SD = 0.80). Advisors reported they thought fourth-year students should spend a mean of 6.5 months doing clinical rotations (range 1-10, SD = 1.91). They recommended highest academic quartile students apply to a median of 10 programs (range 1-30) and lowest quartile students apply to 15 programs (range 3-100). Top recommendations involved maximizing student competitiveness, valuing program fit over reputation, and recognizing key decision points in the application process.   CONCLUSIONS Undergraduate medical advisors recommended specific strategies to enhance students' competitiveness in the Match and to prepare them for residency. The results can inform program directors and encourage dialogue between undergraduate medical education and graduate medical education on how to best utilize the fourth year.
BACKGROUND Duty hour restrictions for resident physicians have led to radical changes in graduate medical education, including a shift to more night float rotations. These rotations have been viewed by residents as predominantly service focused with little opportunity for formalized education.   OBJECTIVE To develop and deliver a resident-driven, nocturnal curriculum to enhance the educational content and value of night float rotations.   METHODS The Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania is a 695-bed, tertiary care academic medical center. Upper-level internal medicine residents developed and peer-reviewed case-based scripts designed to be delivered in 15- to 20-minute teaching sessions. We evaluated the quality of teaching using anonymous, free-response surveys.   RESULTS Twenty-four scripts were developed that explored the differential diagnoses, diagnostic pitfalls, and management of clinical problems that interns frequently encounter on night float rotations. Of 83 eligible residents, 45 (54%) responded to the survey. Teaching occurred an average of 4 nights per week and was uniformly viewed as high yield and topical by night float interns.   CONCLUSIONS A resident-driven, nocturnal curriculum was implemented through the use of case-based teaching scripts, allowing for delivery of a standardized curriculum that capitalizes on the teaching opportunities afforded by the night shift. This intervention may serve as a model for nocturnal education in other departments and institutions.
BACKGROUND Point-of-care ultrasound is a rapidly evolving component of internal medicine (IM) residency training. The optimal approach for teaching this skill remains unclear.   OBJECTIVE We sought to determine whether the addition of a longitudinal ultrasound curriculum to a stand-alone workshop for ultrasound training improved knowledge retention in IM residents.   METHODS We conducted an observational cohort study from July to December 2013. All postgraduate year (PGY)-1 IM residents attended an ultrasound workshop during orientation. Ability to identify static images of ascites, kidney, thyroid, pleural fluid, inferior vena cava, and internal jugular vein was assessed immediately after the workshop. An ultrasound curriculum, including morning report and ultrasound rounds, was initiated during the inpatient medicine rotation. PGY-1 residents were randomly assigned to participate in the longitudinal curriculum. Six months later, we conducted a follow-up survey with all PGY-1 residents.   RESULTS Forty-eight PGY-1 residents (67%) completed the postworkshop test and the 6-month follow-up test. Of these, 50% (24 of 48) had participated in the ultrasound curriculum. Residents not exposed to the curriculum showed a decline in the identification of ascites, pleural effusion, and internal jugular vein at 6 months (P<.05), whereas those who participated in the curriculum maintained their performance (P<.05).   CONCLUSIONS Six months after exposure to a longitudinal ultrasound curriculum, residents were more likely to correctly identify ultrasound images of ascites, kidney, and pleural effusion. The addition of a longitudinal ultrasound curriculum may result in improved knowledge retention in IM residents.
BACKGROUND Internal medicine (IM) residents participate in cardiopulmonary resuscitation events (or 'codes'), stressful events that involve the death or near death of patients. Experiencing traumatic stress can lead to posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD).   OBJECTIVE We examined whether IM residents who participate in codes developed PTSD symptoms.   METHODS We conducted this research as a 2-phase, mixed methods study. In the first phase, we analyzed interview transcripts from 25 IM residents at 9 institutions for content relevant to PTSD. In the second phase, we surveyed 82 IM residents at 1 midwestern institution for symptoms reported post-code that are associated with PTSD (post-code PTSD symptoms).   RESULTS A total of 7 of 25 residents (28%) interviewed characterized codes as traumatic or described experiencing PTSD symptoms, including intrusive thoughts about the code, avoidance and emotional numbing, and hyperarousal, irritability, or hypervigilance. Of the 82 residents, 51 (62%) responded to the questionnaire. Of the 42 respondents who had participated in a code, 6 (14%) reported at least 1 PTSD symptom, and 3 (7%) women screened positive for potential PTSD with 2 or more PTSD symptoms. Endorsing any PTSD symptom was associated with residents' perception that code participation negatively affected their work performance.   CONCLUSIONS Our study found that some IM residents reported symptoms of PTSD after being involved in a code.
AIMS AND OBJECTIVES To understand the patients' reasons for returning to the emergency department soon after their discharge from an internal medicine unit and to compare these reasons with the liaison nurse clinician's risk assessment tools used for discharge planning.   BACKGROUND Returns to the emergency departments soon after discharge from the hospital are a recurrent problem. Factors precipitating readmission to hospital have been analysed through the lens of health care providers, but few studies have explored the patients' perspectives on their reasons for returning to the emergency departments.   DESIGN A qualitative, descriptive study.   METHODS Semi-structured interviews were conducted with a convenience sample of eight patients recruited from a major teaching hospital in Montreal, Canada. Three different data sources were triangulated: patients' perspectives obtained through interviews and data from the tools used by the liaison nurse clinician, the Bounceback Probability Legend and the LACE Index Scoring Tool.   RESULTS Most patients attributed their return to the emergency department on being discharged too soon, feeling weak at discharge, having limited help at home with managing chronic illnesses and insufficient discharge instructions. participants' reasons for returning differed from those predicted by the liaison nurse clinician's evaluation using the risk assessment tools of each participant's risk of return.   CONCLUSIONS This study highlights patients' frailty upon discharge from the hospital and their informational need on their health condition and their support need to rely on during convalescence at home. Patient's readiness and concerns were not integrated as part of the liaison nurse clinician's evaluation tools for discharge planning. This led to discrepancies between the perspectives of the patients and the liaison nurse clinician about discharge planning.   RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE Health care professionals should evaluate patients' understanding of their illness, their readiness for self-management and work collaboratively with patients to assess concerns before discharge, so that appropriate support can be mobilised to prevent readmission.
In several European countries catheter angiography is permitted as a confirmatory procedure for the determination of irreversible loss of brain function (brain death). In Germany catheter angiography requires the possibility of a therapeutic implication as a prerequisite. In the updated German guidelines computed tomography angiography (CTA) has been accredited as a new confirmatory procedure if a standardized protocol and predefined assessment parameters are adhered to. The CTA can be performed within a few minutes, even in situations with unstable intensive care patients. Magnetic resonance (MR) angiography has not yet been adequately validated and is not permitted in Germany as a confirmatory procedure for the determination of irreversible loss of brain function.
Approximately 17 million inhabitants live in the Netherlands. The number of potential organ donors in 1999 was the lowest in Europe with only 10 donors per million inhabitants. Medical associations, public health services, health insurance companies and the government had to find common solutions in order to improve organ allocation, logistics of donations and to increase the number of transplantations. After a prolonged debate on medical ethical issues of organ transplantation, all participants were able to agree on socio-medico-legal regulations for organ donation and transplantation. In addition to improving the procedure for organ donation after brain death (DBD) the most important step was the introduction of organ donation after circulatory death (DCD). Measures such as the introduction of a national organ donor database, improved information to the public, further education on intensive care units (ICU), guidelines for end of life care on the ICU, establishment of transplantation coordinators on site, introduction of autonomous explantation teams and strict procedures on the course of organ donations, answered many practical issues about logistics and responsibilities for DBD and DCD. In 2014 the number of postmortem organ donations rose to 16.4 per million inhabitants. Meanwhile, up to 60% of organ donations in the Netherlands originate from a DCD procedure compared to approximately 10% in the USA. This overview article discusses the developments and processes of deceased donation in the Netherlands after 15 years of experience with DCD.
The diagnostic rationale for patients with chest pain requires an electrocardiogram (ECG) often limited by low pretest values and widely variable post-test values. We assess the value of ECG ordered and interpreted by internal medicine junior medical officers in our emergency department (ED). Participants enrolled in this study included patients who presented to the ED for chest pain between June and October 2014. Seventeen leads ECG were performed systematically when an ECG was judged required by the medical officer in charge and interpreted by a blinded medical officer and ED attending. Ultrasensitive troponin T (usTrop T) and creatinine were also withdrawn. Junior medical officers ordered ECG more commonly for atypical chest pain (57 vs 43%, P=0.049). Univariate and multivariate analysis did not demonstrate a statistically discordant diagnosis between the medical officer and the attending throughout the study period and between the different rotations. We demonstrated 97% sensitivity, 95% specificity, 92% positive predictive value, 98% negative predictive value and 96% accuracy. Our junior medical officers demonstrated an overall high proficiency in the clinical and bedside setting. This finding reinforces our ECG education in the undergraduate curriculum, highlights the importance of the intensive recapitulation sessions undergone at the beginning of the training programme and our daily internal medicine staff discussions rarely performed in other EDs as reported with our experience.
BACKGROUND The discrepancy between the extensive impact of musculoskeletal complaints and the common deficiencies in musculoskeletal examination skills lead to increased emphasis on structured teaching and assessment. However, studies of single interventions are scarce and little is known about the time-dependent effect of assisted learning in addition to a standard curriculum. We therefore evaluated the immediate and long-term impact of a small group course on musculoskeletal examination skills.   METHODS All 48 Year 4 medical students of a 6혻year curriculum, attending their 8혻week clerkship of internal medicine at one University department in Berne, participated in this controlled study. Twenty-seven students were assigned to the intervention of a 6횞1 h practical course (4-7 students, interactive hands-on examination of real patients; systematic, detailed feedback to each student by teacher, peers and patients). Twenty-one students took part in the regular clerkship activities only and served as controls. In all students clinical skills (CS, 9 items) were assessed in an Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE) station, including specific musculoskeletal examination skills (MSES, 7 items) and interpersonal skills (IPS, 2 items). Two raters assessed the skills on a 4-point Likert scale at the beginning (T0), the end (T1) and 4-12 months after (T2) the clerkship. Statistical analyses included Friedman test, Wilcoxon rank sum test and Mann-Whitney U test.   RESULTS At T0 there were no significant differences between the intervention and control group. At T1 and T2 the control group showed no significant changes of CS, MSES and IPS compared to T0. In contrast, the intervention group significantly improved CS, MSES and IPS at T1 (p<0.001). This enhancement was sustained for CS and MSES (p<0.05), but not for IPS at T2.   CONCLUSIONS Year 4 medical students were incapable of improving their musculoskeletal examination skills during regular clinical clerkship activities. However, an additional small group, interactive clinical skills course with feedback from various sources, improved these essential examination skills immediately after the teaching and several months later. We conclude that supplementary specific teaching activities are needed. Even a single, short-lasting targeted module can have a long lasting effect and is worth the additional effort.
Only a few studies provided data on the clinical history of sepsis within internal Medicine units. The aim of the study was to assess the short-term mortality and to evaluate the prognostic risk factors in a large cohort of septic patients treated in internal medicine units. Thirty-one internal medicine units participated to the study. Within each participating unit, all admitted patients were screened for the presence of sepsis. A total of 533 patients were included; 78 patients (14.6%, 95%CI 11.9, 18.0%) died during hospitalization; mortality rate was 5.5% (95% CI 3.1, 9.6%) in patients with nonsevere sepsis and 20.1% (95%CI 16.2, 28.8%) in patients with severe sepsis or septic shock. Severe sepsis or septic shock (OR 4.41, 95%CI 1.93, 10.05), immune system weakening (OR 2.10, 95%CI 1.12, 3.94), active solid cancer (OR 2.14, 95% CI 1.16, 3.94), and age (OR 1.03 per year, 95% CI 1.01, 1.06) were significantly associated with an increased mortality risk, whereas blood culture positive for Escherichia coli was significantly associated with a reduced mortality risk (OR 0.46, 95%CI 0.24, 0.88). In-hospital mortality of septic patients treated in internal medicine units appeared similar to the mortality rate obtained in recent studies conducted in the ICU setting.
PURPOSE Studies suggest time pressure has negative effects on physicians' working conditions and may lead to suboptimal patient care and medical errors. Experimental evidence supporting this is lacking, however. This study investigated the effect of time pressure on diagnostic accuracy.   METHOD In 2013, senior internal medicine residents at three hospitals in Saudi Arabia were divided randomly into two groups: a time-pressure condition and a control condition without time pressure. Both groups diagnosed eight written clinical cases presented on computers. In the time-pressure condition, after completing each case, participants received information that they were behind schedule. Response time was recorded, and diagnostic accuracy was scored.   RESULTS The 23 participants in the time-pressure condition spent significantly less time diagnosing the cases (mean = 96.00 seconds) than the 19 control participants (mean = 151.97 seconds) (P < .001). Participants under time pressure had a significantly lower diagnostic accuracy score (mean = 0.33; 95% CI, 0.23-0.43) than participants without time pressure (mean = 0.51; 95% CI, 0.42-0.60) (F[1, 41] = 6.90, P = .012, 管 = 0.15). This suggests participants in the time-pressure condition made on average 37% more errors than control participants.   CONCLUSIONS Time pressure has a negative impact on diagnostic performance. The authors propose that the effect of time pressure on diagnostic accuracy is moderated by both the case difficulty level and the physician's level of experience. Post hoc analyses demonstrated that time pressure affects diagnostic accuracy only if cases are not too difficult and physicians' expertise level is intermediate.
Primary care residency programs and their associated primary care clinics face challenges in their goal to simultaneously provide a good education for tomorrow's doctors and excellent care for today's patients. A team from the Center for Excellence in Primary Care at the University of California, San Francisco, conducted site visits to 23 family medicine, internal medicine, and pediatric residency teaching clinics. The authors found that a number of programs have transformed themselves with respect to engaged leadership, resident scheduling, continuity of care for patients and residents, team-based care, and resident engagement in practice improvement. In this Commentary, the authors highlight the features of transforming programs that are melding inspiring resident education with excellent patient care. The authors propose a model, the 10 + 3 Building Blocks of Primary Care Teaching Clinics, to illustrate the themes that characterize transforming primary care residency programs.
Therapeutic decision-making for patients with multimorbidity (MM) is challenging. Clinical practice guidelines inadequately address harmful interactions and resulting therapeutic conflicts within and among diseases. A patient-specific measure of MM severity that takes account of this conflict is needed.As a proof of concept, we evaluated whether the new Multimorbidity Interaction Severity Index (MISI) could be used to reliably differentiate patients in terms of lower versus higher potential for harmful interactions.Two hypothetical patient cases were generated, each with 6 concurrent morbidities. One case had a low (i.e., low conflict case) and the other a high (i.e., high conflict case) potential for harmful interactions. All possible interactions between conditions and treatments were extracted from each case's record into a multimorbidity interaction matrix. Experienced general internists (N=18) judged each interaction in the matrix in terms of likely resource utilization needed to manage the interaction. Based on these judgements, a composite index of MM interaction severity, that is, the MISI, was generated for each physician and case.The difference between each physician's MISI score for the 2 cases (MISIdiff) was computed. Based on MISIdiff, the high conflict case was judged to be of significantly greater MM severity than was the low conflict case. The positive values of the inter-quartile range, a measure of variation (or disagreement) between the 2 cases, indicated general consistency of individual physicians in judging MM severity.The data indicate that the MISI can be used to reliably differentiate hypothetical multimorbid patients in terms of lesser versus greater severity of potentially harmful interactive effects. On this basis, the MISI will be further developed for use in patient-specific assessment and management of MM. The clinical relevance of the MISI as an alternative approach to defining MM severity is discussed.
The failure to follow national guidelines in management of various diseases has been previously established. We sought to quantify primary care providers' familiarity with primary hyperparathyroidism as it affects adherence to the 2009 National Institute of Health (NIH) consensus recommendations in treatment of primary hyperparathyroidism. A large primary care group was surveyed to determine their familiarity with the 2009 NIH consensus recommendations for management of primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT). Retrospective review of the group's records (2009-2011) was performed to verify compliance. Survey responders included 109 clinicians, 31 per cent were familiar with all criteria for surgical intervention in asymptomatic patients and 34 per cent correctly identified appropriate surveillance testing for patients undergoing observation. Chart review identified 124 patients with PHPT. Of the patients who met NIH criteria, 34 per cent had a parathyroidectomy. Younger age, higher intact parathyroid hormone, hypercalciuria, and history of nephrolithiasis were associated with surgery in multivariable analysis. Of the observed patients, 16 per cent had appropriate surveillance studies. In conclusion, this study confirms suboptimal adherence with consensus recommendations in management of PHPT. A minority of clinicians demonstrated solid familiarity with management strategies, paralleling their treatment approach. Educational efforts may improve adherence with upcoming national recommendations.
Purpose괙valuation of clinical impact regarding diagnostic and therapeutic changes influenced by interdisciplinary radiological case presentations. Materials and Methods괦rospective evaluation of radiological-gastrointestinal clinical case conferences over a 1-year period at a tertiary care center. We documented the preparation (phase 1) and clinical case conference (phase 2) regarding their impact on the radiology report and further diagnostic work-up and therapy. Results1067 examinations were evaluated in 69 clinical case conferences including 487 cases. We calculated a mean time of 35.8 minutes per conference with 5.1 minutes per case for preparation. During phase 1, major changes compared to the previous report were found in 1.2% of cases, and no change was found in 91.4% of cases. In phase 2 an additional relevant finding was found in 0.6% of cases, while there was no major change to the reports in 99% of cases. We recommended further radiological diagnostic workup in 9% of cases and interventional radiological examination in 2.7% of cases, while no change was documented in 83.2%. Further radiological or surgical therapy was recommended in 7% and 6.8% of cases, respectively. There was no change in therapy in 78.5% of cases. Conclusion괫he analysis of an interdisciplinary radiological case presentation in internal medicine shows that the case discussion with the radiologist results in a change in patient management in 37.3% of cases (16.8% diagnosis, 21.5% therapy). Overall, interdisciplinary radiological clinical case conferences help to improve the management and quality of patient care. Our data support the broad implementation of radiological clinical case conferences. Key Points 쨌 The second opinion obtained during the preparation of a radiological case presentation does not change the written report in most cases.. 쨌 'Talking radiology' in radiological case presentations results in a significant change in patient management in over  of all cases.. 쨌 In radiological clinical case conferences an experienced radiologist can initiate diagnostic and interventional radiological methods that can be correctly implemented in therapeutic pathways.. 쨌 'Talking radiology' improves the quality of therapy and patient care.. Citation Format 쨌 Dendl L. M., Teufel A., Schleder S. et둧l. Analysis of Radiological Case Presentations and their Impact on Therapy and Treatment Concepts in Internal Medicine. Fortschr R철ntgenstr 2017; 189: 239-246.
AIM To describe the occurrence and the typology of waste in the nurses clinical practice as well as the differences between the medical and surgical area.   METHODS A cross-sectional study was conducted in a north eastern Italian hospital. Data collection, conducted on 100 nurses in September 2015, was carried out using a semi-structured questionnaire consisting of 56 items and eight dimensions (Overproduction / Underutilisation, Wait, Stocks, Process, Inefficiency and Errors, Material Transport and Information Flows, Movements, Dispersion of Knowledge).   RESULTS In a nurses' working week 2,028 짹 9.2 waste occurrences were reported, with an average of 20.2 짹9.2 per nurse. Seven hundred fifty-nine (37.4%) of them occurred in the medical area, while 1,269 (63.6%) occurred in the surgical area. The most frequent number of waste (398; 19.6%) occurred in the 'Process' dimension. Across the investigated dimensions, the main types of waste were: the inappropriate use of energy (30.0%), waiting for the physician (17.1%), shortage of materials (33.1%), the excess of human resources distributed in a sub-optimal manner (31.8%), human resources shortage (22.4%), incomprehensible and/or incomplete therapeutic prescriptions (22.6%), the search of materials in distant warehouses or in outside locale (23.9%), the transfer of team members from one department to another (30.0%), and limited application of scientific evidence in clinical practice (51.7%). No statistical differences emerged between the two investigated clinical areas (p-value = 0.480).   CONCLUSIONS The study is a contribution to the national debate on the phenomenon of waste in health care organizations, and provides useful insights on the possible strategies of its containment.
PURPOSE Medical simulation is fast becoming a standard of health care training throughout undergraduate, postgraduate and continuing medical education. Our aim was to evaluate if simulated scenarios have a high psychological fidelity and induce stress levels similarly to real emergency medical situations.   MATERIALS AND METHODS Medical residents had their stress levels measured during emergency care (real-life and simulation) in baseline (T1) and immediately post-emergencies (T2). Parameters measuring acute stress were: heart rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, salivary 慣-amylase, salivary interleukin-1棺, and State-Trait Anxiety Inventory score.   RESULTS Twenty-eight internal medicine residents participated in 32 emergency situations (16 real-life and 16 simulated emergencies). In the real-life group, all parameters increased significantly (P < .05) between T1 and T2. In the simulation group, only heart rate and interleukin-1棺 increased significantly after emergencies. The comparison between groups demonstrates that acute stress response (T2 - T1) and State-Trait Anxiety Inventory score (in T2) did not differ between groups.   CONCLUSIONS Acute stress response did not differ between both groups. Our results indicate that emergency medicine simulation may create a high psychological fidelity environment similarly to what is observed in a real emergency room.
RATIONALE In high-acuity settings such as intensive care units (ICUs), the quality of communication with patients' families is a particularly important component of care. Evidence shows that ICU communication is often inadequate and can negatively impact family outcomes.   OBJECTIVES To assess the impact of a communication training program on resident skills in communicating with families in an ICU and on family outcomes.   METHODS We conducted a prospective, single-site educational intervention study. The intervention featured a weekly required communication training program (4 h total) during the ICU rotation, which included interactive discussion, and role play with immediate feedback from simulated family members. All internal medicine residents on ICU rotation between July 2012 and July 2014 were invited to participate in the study. Family members who had a meeting with an enrolled resident were approached for a survey or interview. The primary outcome was family ratings of how well residents met their informational and emotional needs.   MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS The response rate for the resident baseline survey was 93% (n = 149 of 160), and it was 90% at postcourse and 84% at 3-month follow-up. Of 303 family members approached, 237 were enrolled. Enrolled family members who had a confirmed meeting with a resident were eligible to complete a survey or interview. The completion rate was 86% (n = 82 of 95). Family members were more likely to describe residents as having 'fully met' (average rating of 10/10 on 0-10 scale) their informational and emotional needs when the resident had completed two or three course sessions (84% of family members said conversation with these residents 'fully met' their needs), as compared with residents who had taken one session or no sessions (25% of family members said needs were 'fully met') (P < 0.0001). Residents described improvements across all domains. All differences are statistically significant, most with large effect sizes.   CONCLUSIONS At our institution, an on-site communication training program designed for integration into medical residency programs was associated with strongly positive family member outcomes and significant improvements in residents' perceived skills. This intervention may serve to prepare residents for optimal communications with patients and family members in ICUs and elsewhere.
BACKGROUND Teaching Internal Medicine is mainly hospital-based. Chronic diseases are treated mostly in community-based ambulatory care. This study describes our experience during the first year of teaching Internal Medicine in the community, with a focus on chronic disease management.   METHODS This was an observational study describing the content of clinical exposure and the feedback from students after a two-week clerkship in community health centers.   RESULTS Over a period of three months, 54 students spent two weeks in health centers singly or in pairs. The disciplines covered were: Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, Pulmonology, Rheumatology and Geriatrics. In their feedback, the students most frequently noted knowledge acquired in the management of diabetes, infectious diseases and cardiology. The teaching content was determined by the case-mix of patients. The spectrum of conditions was wide. Students who were used to more structured hospital-based study found it difficult to cope with this mode of learning by discovery.   DISCUSSION Future research should concentrate on the transition between the different modes of learning as students move from the hospital to the community setting.
BACKGROUND We created a tool to improve communication among health professional trainees in the ambulatory setting. The tool was devised to both inform practice partner teams about high-risk patients and assign patient follow-up issues to team members. Team members were internal medicine residents and nurse practitioner fellows in the VA Connecticut Healthcare System Center of Excellence in Primary Care Education (CoEPCE), an interprofessional training model in primary care.   METHODS We used a combination of Likert scale response questions and open ended questions to evaluate trainee attitudes before and after the implementation of the tool, as well as solicited feedback to improve the tool.   RESULTS After using the primary care sign out tool, trainees expressed greater confidence that they could identify high-risk patients that had been cared for by other trainees and that important patient care issues would be followed up by others when they were not in clinic. In terms of areas for improvement, respondents wanted to have the sign out tool posted online.   DISCUSSION Our sign out tool offers a strategy that others can use to improve communication and knowledge of shared patients within teams comprised of interprofessional trainees.
OBJECTIVES There is minimal information on malnutrition in neurologic-psychiatric patients compared to internal and trauma-surgical patients. The aim of the present study was to explore if there is a correlation of these different disease groups with the nutritional assessment and biochemical markers.   DESIGN Cross - sectional study.   SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS The study was done in a department of geriatric medicine with subspecialisation in neurologic diseases and stroke unit. 338 patients (m / f = 136 / 202, mean age 81.4 짹 7.3 years) were evaluated.   MEASUREMENTS The nutritional status was evaluated by using the short form of the Mini Nutritional Assessment (MNA-SF) and seven biochemical markers (hemoglobin, iron, ferritin, vitamin B 12, folic acid, albumin and cholinesterase) were measured.   RESULTS There were 74 (22%) patients with MNA  7 points (malnutrition), 148 (44%) patients with an MNA 8 - 11 points (risk of malnutrition) and 116 (34%) patients with an MNA  12 points (good nutritional status). The mean MNA score of the three major disease groups trauma-surgery, internal medicine and neurology-psychiatry was 9.1 짹 3.2 vs. 9.9 짹 3.1 vs. 10.0 짹 2.8 (p=0.236). There were significant differences of laboratory markers between the disease groups. A deficit of albumin, cholinesterase and hemoglobin was found more often in trauma-surgical and internal patients than in neurological-psychiatric patients (albumin: 21.4%, 15.7%, 5.3%; p=0.001; cholinesterase 16.7%, 16.9%, 6.3%; p=0.007; hemoglobin 78.6%, 61.4%, 50.0%; p=0.002).   CONCLUSIONS Following Mini Nutritional Assessment, the additional measurement of albumin, cholinesterase and hemoglobin allowed a more precise grading of malnutrition. There were significant differences between the disease groups. A deficit of albumin, cholinesterase and hemoglobin was found more often in multimorbid trauma-surgical and internal patients than in neurologic-psychiatric patients.
BACKGROUND Postgraduate medical trainees are not well prepared difficult conversations about goals of care with patients and families in the acute care clinical setting. While contextual nuances within the workplace can impact communication, research to date has largely focused on individual communication skills. Our objective was to explore contextual factors that influence conversations between trainees and patients/families about goals of care in the acute care setting.   METHODS We conducted an exploratory qualitative study involving five focus groups with Internal Medicine trainees (n=20) and a series of interviews with clinical faculty (n=11) within a single Canadian centre. Thematic framework analysis was applied to categorize the data and identify themes and subthemes.   RESULTS Challenges and factors enabling goals of care conversations emerged within individual, interpersonal and system dimensions. Challenges included inadequate preparation for these conversations, disconnection between trainees, faculty and patients, policies around documentation, the structure of postgraduate medical education, and resource limitations; these challenges led to missed opportunities, uncertainty and emotional distress. Enabling factors were awareness of the importance of goals of care conversations, support in these discussions, collaboration with colleagues, and educational initiatives enabling skill development; these factors have resulted in learning, appreciation, and an established foundation for future educational initiatives.   CONCLUSIONS Contextual factors impact how postgraduate medical trainees communicate with patients/families about goals of care. Attention to individual, interpersonal and system-related factors will be important in designing educational programs that help trainees develop the capacities needed for challenging conversations.
The latest developments in emergency medicine (EM) have introduced new typologies of patients that have not been taken into account in previous studies of venous thromboembolism (VTE) risk. The aim of the current study was to evaluate by comparing the main international risk scores whether different perceptions of VTE risk exist in internal medicine (IM) departments and in EM departments. This cross-sectional observational study involved 23 IM and 10 EM departments of 21 different hospitals. The patient data were collected by physicians who were blinded to the purpose of the study. The data were analyzed using the main international risk scores. We analyzed 742 patients, 222 (30%) hospitalized in EM departments and the remaining 520 (70%) in IM departments. We found that fewer patients at risk for VTE were treated with low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) in EM departments than in IM departments. Moreover, there was significant statistical difference in the use of LMWH between IM and EM departments when the Padua score and immobilization criteria were used to assess the risk. The infrequent use of LMWH in EM patients may have several causes. For example, in EM departments, treatment of acute illness often takes higher priority than VTE risk evaluation. Moreover, immobilization criteria cannot be evaluated for all EM patients because of the intrinsic time requirements. For the aforementioned reasons, we believe that a different VTE risk score is required that takes into account the peculiarities of EM, and establishing such a score should be the object of future study.
BACKGROUND Treatment options for Graves' disease (GD), namely anti-thyroid drugs (ATD), surgery or radioiodine (RAI), have not changed over the past two decades. There is no 'gold-standard' treatment for GD.   AIMS To assess whether the management of GD in New Zealand has changed since the previous 1991 New Zealand survey and compare current management with that of contemporary international studies.   METHODS We conducted an online survey of New Zealand physicians currently practising internal medicine, diabetes and/or endocrinology, using the cases and questions from the original European and 1991 New Zealand studies.   RESULTS The first-line use of RAI was 5.5%, compared to 41% in the 1991 New Zealand survey. This corresponded to an increase in ATD use, while the rates of surgery as a first-line treatment have remained static over time. New Zealand physicians use technetium scanning for diagnosis, whereas ultrasound and radioiodine uptake were the most commonly selected investigations by European and North American physicians, respectively. The pattern of ATD use in pregnancy was similar to international practice.   CONCLUSION Treatment of GD in New Zealand has shifted away from the use of RAI as first line treatment. There are significant differences in the investigation and treatment of Grave's disease between New Zealand, Europe and North America.
Endobronchial ultrasonography (EBUS) is a recent mini-invasive technique allowing transbronchial needle aspiration (TBNA) of mediastinal lymph nodes as well as peribronchial lesions. EBUS was initially developed for lung cancer mediastinal staging. Over the years, indications for EBUS have been progressively extended to the scope of inflammatory disorders, mediastinal lymphomas, and infectious diseases. Particularly in immunosuppressed patients, including HIV-infected patients, EBUS allows the diagnosis of several diseases that involve the mediastinum, avoiding invasive surgical explorations such as mediastinoscopy or thoracoscopy. This review aims at discussing the technical aspects, and specifies indications, results, and limits of EBUS for the internist.
OBJECTIVES Patient safety event (PSE) reporting is a critical element for healthcare organizations that are striving for continuous quality improvement. Although resident physicians routinely provide the majority of direct patient care, the level of their participation in PSE reporting historically has been low. In addition, as part of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education's Next Accreditation System, the Clinical Learning Environment Review site visit assesses residents' engagement in PSE reporting at each accredited academic institution. The objective of this study was to understand the common barriers to PSE reporting and design an intervention to increase the number of PSE reports by resident physicians.   METHODS We surveyed 304 residents and fellows to assess attitudes toward the PSE reporting system and identify barriers to submitting online PSE reports. Based on this analysis of barriers, we piloted interventions with the internal medicine residency program and measured their effect on resident PSE reporting.   RESULTS Of the survey respondents, 58% had never submitted a PSE report. The most commonly identified barriers were too much time required to submit a report (38% of all respondents), lack of education on how or what to report (37%), lack of feedback or change after reporting (19%), and concern for repercussions or lack of anonymity (13%). Based on this analysis of barriers, we piloted interventions with the internal medicine residency program to educate residents about PSE reporting through a reminder message in their orientation e-mail, informational slides at the end of conferences that described what and how to report, a pocket card with reporting instructions, and leadership encouragement during walk rounds by chief medical residents and the program director. Compared with the 10 weeks before the start of the intervention, the number of PSE reports submitted by internal medicine residents more than doubled, from 16 to 37 reports (P < 0.01). This increase in resident PSE reporting was sustained for 20 weeks despite the interventions lasting only 8 weeks.   CONCLUSIONS A resident-driven intervention that fostered a culture of encouragement for PSE reporting through leadership support and targeted education increased the number of PSE reports submitted by internal medicine residents at our health system. Hospitals and health systems should seek to understand the common barriers to PSE reporting from this important group of direct patient care providers and administer structured educational programs to encourage their participation.
Military internists and internal medicine subspecialists are physicians who generally work in traditional internal medicine settings. However, when deployed to combat settings, they must prepare and adapt their skills for a wide spectrum of complex, polytrauma, and multinational patients. There are limitations in personnel, equipment, and technical resources that make the circumstances complex and demanding. This article highlights some of the unique roles, challenges, and experiences of four military internists at the NATO Role 3, a deployed combat hospital in Afghanistan.
PROBLEM Medical education has been cited as both part of the problems facing, and part of the solution to reforming, the increasingly challenging U.S. health care system which is fraught with concerns regarding the quality and affordability of care. To teach value in ways that are impactful, sustainable, and scalable, the best and brightest ideas need to be shared such that educators can build on successful existing innovations.   APPROACH To identify the most promising innovations and bright ideas for teaching value to clinical trainees, the authors hosted the 'Teaching Value and Choosing Wisely Challenge.' The challenge used crowdsourcing methods to solicit scalable, pedagogical approaches from across North America, and then draw generalizable lessons.   OUTCOMES The authors received 74 submissions (28 innovations; 46 bright ideas) from 14 students, 20 residents/fellows, 38 faculty members (ranging from instructors to full professors), and 2 nonclinical administrators. Submissions represented 14 clinical disciplines including internal medicine, emergency medicine, surgery, pediatrics, obstetrics-gynecology, laboratory medicine, and pharmacy. Thirty-nine abstracts focused on graduate medical education, 15 addressed undergraduate medical education, and 20 applied to both.   NEXT STEPS The authors have solicited, shared, and described solutions for teaching high-value care to medical trainees. Challenge participants demonstrated commitment to improving value and ingenuity in addressing professional barriers to change. Further success requires strong local faculty champions and willing trainee participants. Additionally, the use of data to demonstrate the collective positive impact of these ideas and programs will be critical for sustaining pedagogical changes in the health professions.
The paper focuses on the past five years of National Residency Match Program (NRMP) information in the Unites States with a comparison point of twenty years ago utilized because of a referenced article. It is well known to our students going through the match that it is more competitive than in prior years. To rank enough programs for your field, take Step 2 early to maximize your score, to get quality letters and to practice mock interviews. The 99% match rate has remained steady over the past five years despite an increase in all primary care disciplines particularly Internal Medicine. Family Medicine and Internal Medicine work with, on average, about half U.S. seniors and half from other groups including Osteopathic and IMG (U.S. citizen and non-U.S. citizen). This can create a holistic experience for residents with a sharing of ideas from students from varied backgrounds. While the Supplemental Offer and Acceptance Program appear as an initial success, the student's goal should be to avoid such a step altogether. The key twenty years ago and today is the existence of appropriate numbers of resident and faculty role models. This is a stressful goal considering the demands on faculty for billing and patient care due to the shiftwork nature of the new work hours.
BACKGROUND Screening, brief intervention, and referral to treatment (SBIRT) is an efficacious and cost-effective skill set when implemented in primary care settings regarding hazardous alcohol use. This study assesses the impact of medical resident SBIRT training across 3 specialties and identifies predictors of change in trainee behavior, attitudes, and knowledge over 12 months.   METHODS This program's substance use SBIRT training was developed and tailored to fit diverse curricular objectives and settings across an array of medical residency programs in South Texas. The 329 residents training in pediatrics, family medicine, and internal medicine during 2009-2012 constituted the trainee group reported in this analysis. Surveys assessing SBIRT-related knowledge, current practice, confidence, role responsibility, attitudes, beliefs, and readiness to change were completed by 234 (71%) trainees at 3 time points: pre-training, then 30 days and 12 months post-initial training.   RESULTS SBIRT-related knowledge, confidence, and practice increased from pre-training to 12-month follow-up. Residents who reported the least amount of pre-training clinical and/or prior academic exposure to substance use reported the greatest SBIRT practice increases. When controlling for demographic and prior exposure variables, the largest contributor to variance in SBIRT practice was attributed to residents' confidence in their SBIRT skills.   CONCLUSIONS SBIRT training that employs diverse educational methodologies as part of customizing the training to residency specialties can similarly enhance SBIRT-related knowledge, confidence, and practice. Trainee report of limited prior clinical or academic exposure to substance use and/or low confidence regarding SBIRT skills and their professional role responsibilities related to substance use predicted trainee success and sustained SBIRT strategy application. When customizing SBIRT training, curriculum developers should consider leveraging and capacity building related to those factors predicting continued use of SBIRT practices.
PURPOSE The United States is experiencing an epidemic of opioid-related deaths driven by excessive prescribing of opioids, misuse of prescription drugs, and increased use of heroin. Buprenorphine-naloxone is an effective treatment for opioid use disorder and can be provided in office-based settings, but this treatment is unavailable to many patients who could benefit. We sought to describe the geographic distribution and specialties of physicians obtaining waivers from the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) to prescribe buprenorphine-naloxone to treat opioid use disorder and to identify potential shortages of physicians.   METHODS We linked physicians authorized to prescribe buprenorphine on the July 2012 DEA Drug Addiction Treatment Act (DATA) Waived Physician List to the American Medical Association Physician Masterfile to determine their age, specialty, rural-urban status, and location. We then mapped the location of these physicians and determined their supply for all US counties.   RESULTS Sixteen percent of psychiatrists had received a DEA DATA waiver (41.6% of all physicians with waivers) but practiced primarily in urban areas. Only 3.0% of primary care physicians, the largest group of physicians in rural America, had received waivers. Most US counties therefore had no physicians who had obtained waivers to prescribe buprenorphine-naloxone, resulting in more than 30 million persons who were living in counties without access to buprenorphine treatment.   CONCLUSIONS In the United States opioid use and related unintentional lethal overdoses continue to rise, particularly in rural areas. Increasing access to office-based treatment of opioid use disorder--particularly in rural America--is a promising strategy to address rising rates of opioid use disorder and unintentional lethal overdoses.
UNLABELLED PHENOMENON: Medical students receive much of their inpatient teaching from residents who now experience restructured teaching services to accommodate the 2011 duty-hour regulations (DHR). The effect of DHR on medical student educational experiences is unknown. We examined medical students' and clerkship directors' perceptions of the effects of the 2011 DHR on internal medicine clerkship students' experiences with teaching, feedback and evaluation, and patient care.   APPROACH Students at 14 institutions responded to surveys after their medicine clerkship or subinternship. Students who completed their clerkship (n = 839) and subinternship (n = 228) March to June 2011 (pre-DHR historical controls) were compared to clerkship students (n = 895) and subinterns (n = 377) completing these rotations March to June 2012 (post-DHR). Z tests for proportions correcting for multiple comparisons were performed to assess attitude changes. The Clerkship Directors in Internal Medicine annual survey queried institutional members about the 2011 DHR just after implementation.   FINDINGS Survey response rates were 64% and 50% for clerkship students and 60% and 48% for subinterns in 2011 and 2012 respectively, and 82% (99/121) for clerkship directors. Post-DHR, more clerkship students agreed that attendings (p =.011) and interns (p =.044) provided effective teaching. Clerkship students (p =.013) and subinterns (p =.001) believed patient care became more fragmented. The percentage of holdover patients clerkship students (p =.001) and subinterns (p =.012) admitted increased. Clerkship directors perceived negative effects of DHR for students on all survey items. Most disagreed that interns (63.1%), residents (67.8%), or attendings (71.1%) had more time to teach. Most disagreed that students received more feedback from interns (56.0%) or residents (58.2%). Fifty-nine percent felt that students participated in more patient handoffs. INSIGHTS: Students perceive few adverse consequences of the 2011 DHR on their internal medicine experiences, whereas their clerkship director educators have negative perceptions. Future research should explore the impact of fragmented patient care on the student-patient relationship and students' clinical skills acquisition.
Most training programs use learners' subjective ratings of their teachers as the primary measure of teaching effectiveness. In a recent study we found that preclinical medical students' ratings of classroom teachers were associated with perceived charisma and physical attractiveness of the teacher, but not intellect. Here we explored whether the relationship between these variables and teaching effectiveness ratings holds in the clinical setting. We asked 27 Internal Medicine residents to rate teaching effectiveness of ten teachers with whom they had worked on a clinical rotation, in addition to rating each teacher's clinical skills, physical attractiveness, and charisma. We used linear regression to study the association between these explanatory variables and teaching effectiveness ratings. We found no association between rating of physical attractiveness and teaching effectiveness. Clinical skill and charisma were independently associated with rating of teaching effectiveness (regression coefficients [95혻% confidence interval] 0.73 [0.60, 0.85], p혻<혻0.001 and 0.12 [0.01, 0.23], p혻=혻0.03, respectively). The variables associated with effectiveness of classroom and clinical teachers differ, suggesting context specificity in teaching effectiveness ratings. Context specificity may be explained by differences in the exposure that learners have to teachers in the classroom versus clinical setting-so that raters in the clinical setting may base ratings upon observed behaviours rather than stereotype data. Alternatively, since subjective ratings of teaching effectiveness inevitably incorporate learners' context-specific needs, the attributes that make a teacher effective in one context may not meet the needs of learners in a different context.
IMPORTANCE Emergent ophthalmic disease can lead to permanent visual impairment or blindness if medical attention is delayed. Awareness and knowledge of emergent ophthalmic disease may be important for early medical presentation and maximization of visual prognosis in some cases.   OBJECTIVE To assess public awareness and knowledge of 4 emergent ophthalmic diseases.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS This cross-sectional study was conducted from June 1 to July 30, 2015, in the waiting rooms of the outpatient internal medicine resident clinic at Mount Sinai Hospital. A written survey was administered to evaluate awareness and knowledge of retinal detachment, acute angle-closure glaucoma, giant cell arteritis, and central retinal artery occlusion. Awareness of each disease was assessed by whether participants knew what the diseases were (yes or no). Knowledge was evaluated by responses to 3 questions for each disease, including 1 question about basic pathophysiologic features, 1 question about basic symptoms, and 1 question about basic treatment options. All English-speaking patients who were physically and cognitively able to fill out the survey without assistance were considered eligible and offered the opportunity to participate during times of survey distribution; 237 completed the survey. Demographic information, including age, sex, race, income, and educational level, was collected. Data were assessed from August 1 to 7, 2015.   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Awareness of each ophthalmic disease was determined by the proportion of respondents who answered yes, and knowledge was determined by the proportion of aware respondents who answered the knowledge questions correctly.   RESULTS Two hundred thirty-seven patients (of 227 who gave complete demographic information, 76 men [33.5%], 151 women [66.5%], and mean [SD] age, 51.3 [16.8] years) completed the survey. Awareness of each of the diseases studied was low; 61 of 220 respondents (27.7%; 95% CI, 21.8%-33.6%) were aware of retinal detachment; 32 of 219 respondents (14.6%; 95% CI, 9.9%-19.3%), acute angle-closure glaucoma; 11 of 216 respondents (5.1%; 95% CI, 2.2%-8.0%), giant cell arteritis; and 10 of 218 respondents (4.6%; 95% CI, 1.8%-7.4%), central retinal artery occlusion. Respondents who were aware and knowledgeable ranged from 29 of 199 (14.6%) for the pathophysiologic features of retinal detachment, 1 of 208 (0.5%) for the symptoms and 2 of 203 (1.0%) for treatment of giant cell arteritis, and 1 of 193 (0.5%) for the pathophysiologic features of central retinal artery occlusion.   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Levels of awareness and knowledge of emergent ophthalmic diseases are low. These results indicate a need to educate the public about these acutely vision-threatening entities to ensure early medical presentation, to achieve the best possible visual prognosis, and to preserve quality of life.
CONTEXT Progress tests, in which learners are repeatedly assessed on equivalent content at different times in their training and provided with feedback, would seem to lend themselves well to a competency-based framework, which requires more frequent formative assessments. The objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) progress test is a relatively new form of assessment that is used to assess the progression of clinical skills. The purpose of this study was to establish further evidence for the use of an OSCE progress test by demonstrating an association between scores from this assessment method and those from a national high-stakes examination.   METHODS The results of 8 years' of data from an Internal Medicine Residency OSCE (IM-OSCE) progress test were compared with scores on the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada Comprehensive Objective Examination in Internal Medicine (RCPSC IM examination), which is comprised of both a written and performance-based component (n = 180). Correlations between scores in the two examinations were calculated. Logistic regression analyses were performed comparing IM-OSCE progress test scores with an 'elevated risk of failure' on either component of the RCPSC IM examination.   RESULTS Correlations between scores from the IM-OSCE (for PGY-1 residents to PGY-4 residents) and those from the RCPSC IM examination ranged from 0.316 (p = 0.001) to 0.554 (<.001) for the performance-based component and 0.305 (p = 0.002) to 0.516 (p < 0.001) for the written component. Logistic regression models demonstrated that PGY-2 and PGY-4 scores from the IM-OSCE were predictive of an 'elevated risk of failure' on both components of the RCPSC IM examination.   CONCLUSIONS This study provides further evidence for the use of OSCE progress testing by demonstrating a correlation between scores from an OSCE progress test and a national high-stakes examination. Furthermore, there is evidence that OSCE progress test scores are predictive of future performance on a national high-stakes examination.
BACKGROUND Entrustable professional activities (EPAs) have been developed to assess resident physicians with respect to Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) competencies and milestones. Although the feasibility of using EPAs has been reported, we are unaware of previous validation studies on EPAs and potential associations between EPA quality scores and characteristics of educational programs.   OBJECTIVES Our aim was to validate an instrument for assessing the quality of EPAs for assessment of internal medicine residents, and to examine associations between EPA quality scores and features of rotations.   DESIGN This was a prospective content validation study to design an instrument to measure the quality of EPAs that were written for assessing internal medicine residents.   PARTICIPANTS Residency leadership at Mayo Clinic, Rochester participated in this study. This included the Program Director, Associate program directors and individual rotation directors.   INTERVENTIONS The authors reviewed salient literature. Items were developed to reflect domains of EPAs useful for assessment. The instrument underwent further testing and refinement. Each participating rotation director created EPAs that they felt would be meaningful to assess learner performance in their area. These 229 EPAs were then assessed with the QUEPA instrument to rate the quality of each EPA.   MAIN MEASURES Performance characteristics of the QUEPA are reported. Quality ratings of EPAs were compared to the primary ACGME competency, inpatient versus outpatient setting and specialty type.   KEY RESULTS QUEPA tool scores demonstrated excellent reliability (ICC range 0.72 to 0.94). Higher ratings were given to inpatient versus outpatient (3.88, 3.66; p=0.03) focused EPAs. Medical knowledge EPAs scored significantly lower than EPAs assessing other competencies (3.34, 4.00; p<0.0001).   CONCLUSIONS The QUEPA tool is supported by good validity evidence and may help in rating the quality of EPAs developed by individual programs. Programs should take care when writing EPAs for the outpatient setting or to assess medical knowledge, as these tended to be rated lower.
While the objective recording of clinical competencies in an electronic portfolio (ePortfolio) has become a key aspect of basic specialist training (BST), it continues to divide opinion. We surveyed medical trainees and their supervisors in the Dublin region examining their views of the ePortfolio and workplace-based assessments (WPBAs). Responses were received from 27 of 149 (18.1%) SHOs and 24 of 307 (7.9%) consultants. Our results highlight significant dissatisfaction amongst trainees with 20 (74.1%) stating that the ePortfolio is not an effective educational tool. Consultants had more mixed views. While 16 (66.7%) reported that feedback sessions were useful for trainee development, only 4 (16.7%) found the ePortfolio to be useful in highlighting trainees' strengths and weaknesses. Although other studies have emphasised its educational potential, our results suggest that practical barriers, such as time constraints and a lack of training, lead to poor engagement and a negative view of the ePortfolio.
OBJECTIVES Binge eating disorder (BED)--now a designated disorder in the DSM-5--is the most prevalent eating disorder (ED), affecting 2-3% of the US population. This survey of US physicians assesses how BED is diagnosed, treated and referred.   METHODS Internists, family practitioners, obstetrics/gynecologist (OB/GYNs) and psychiatrists were randomly selected from a nationally-representative panel. Participants completed an online survey and reviewed case vignettes consistent with DSM-5-defined BED, then answered questions to elicit whether they would assess for psychiatric conditions including EDs. Those reporting they would screen and who correctly identified BED in vignettes received additional questions about BED diagnosis, treatment, and referral patterns.   RESULTS Of 278 physicians surveyed, 96% were board-certified and 87% had practiced >10 years. 23% were psychiatrists, 27% family practitioners, 31% internists and 19% OB/GYNs. 92% were 'somewhat likely' to screen for ED after reviewing DSM-5-consistent vignettes. 206 (74%) correctly identified BED. Of these, 33% and 68% reported they proactively screen eating habits for all patients and obese patients, respectively. 10% reported not screening eating habits even in the presence of ED symptoms. Fewer than half reported using DSM criteria in Diagnosing BED, and 56 (27%) did not recognize BED to be a discreet ED.   CONCLUSION Although ED awareness is improving, understanding BED as a distinct ED is lacking, which may result in low rates of screening and diagnosis. This study illustrates how taking a complete patient history (including probing BED characteristics) may be an effective first-line strategy for clinicians to facilitate optimal care for these patients.
BACKGROUND Efforts to improve diabetes care in residency programs are ongoing and in the midst of continuity clinic redesign at many institutions. While there appears to be a link between resident continuity and improvement in glycemic control for diabetic patients, it is uncertain whether clinic structure affects quality measures and patient outcomes.   METHODS This multi-institutional, cross-sectional study included 12 internal medicine programs. Three outcomes (glycemic control, blood pressure control, and achievement of target low-density lipoprotein [LDL]) and 2 process measures (A1C and LDL measurement) were reported for diabetic patients. Traditional, block, and combination clinic models were compared using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA). Analysis was adjusted for continuity, utilization, workload, and panel size.   RESULTS No significant differences were found in glycemic control across clinic models (P=.06). The percentage of diabetic patients with LDL < 100 mg/dL was 60% in block, compared to 54.9% and 55% in traditional and combination models (P=.006). The percentage of diabetic patients with blood pressure < 130/80 mmHg was 48.4% in block, compared to 36.7% and 36.9% in other models (P<.001). The percentage of diabetic patients with HbA1C measured was 92.1% in block compared to 75.2% and 82.1% in other models (P<.001). Also, the percentage of diabetic patients with LDL measured was significantly different across all groups, with 91.2% in traditional, 70.4% in combination, and 83.3% in block model programs (P<.001).   CONCLUSIONS While high scores on diabetic quality measures are achievable in any clinic model, the block model design was associated with better performance.
BACKGROUND Since the late 1980s, resident physicians have spent increasing amounts of time on electronic health record (EHR) data entry and retrieval. Objective longitudinal data measuring time spent on the EHR are lacking.   OBJECTIVE We sought to quantify the time actually spent using the EHR by all first-year internal medicine residents in a single program (N = 41).   METHODS Active EHR usage data were collected from the audit logs for May, July, and October 2014 and January 2015. Per recommendations from our EHR vendor (Cerner Corporation), active EHR usage time was defined as more than 15 keystrokes, or 3 mouse clicks, or 1700 'mouse miles' per minute. Active EHR usage time was tallied for each patient chart viewed each day and termed an electronic patient record encounter (EPRE).   RESULTS In 4 months, 41 interns accumulated 18,322 hours of active EHR usage in more than 33,733 EPREs. Each intern spent on average 112 hours per month on 206 EPREs. Interns spent more time in July compared to January (41 minutes versus 30 minutes per EPRE, P < .001). Time spent on the EHR in January echoed that of the previous May (30 minutes versus 29 minutes, P = .40).   CONCLUSIONS First-year residents spent a significant amount of time actively using the EHR, achieving maximal proficiency on or before January of the academic year. Decreased time spent on the EHR may reflect greater familiarity with the EHR, growing EHR efficiencies, or other factors.
BACKGROUND Evaluation of the clinical importance of outcomes in research studies is an essential element of clinical decision making.   OBJECTIVE To understand how clinicians and trainees weigh the importance of different types of clinical outcomes in drug trials.   METHODS A self-administered paper survey contained 4 scenarios asking participants to rate (1, 'no proof' to 10, 'good proof') the extent to which 4 study outcomes provided 'proof that the new drug might help people.' Outcomes included (1) a surrogate outcome; (2) a surrogate-enriched composite outcome; (3) stroke mortality; and (4) all-cause mortality. The primary study metrics were mean ratings for each of the 4 outcome types, and the proportion ranking outcome importance of all-cause mortality > stroke mortality > surrogate-enriched composite or surrogate alone.   RESULTS A convenience sample of 549 clinicians and trainees at 2 medical centers completed the survey (response rate: 87% medical students, 80% internal medicine residents, 69% general medicine faculty, and 41% physician experts). The surrogate-enriched composite outcome and stroke mortality were rated the most important evidence for benefit (6.6 and 6.4, respectively), with all-cause mortality and a surrogate outcome being rated significantly lower (5.2 and 4.6, respectively). In addition, 48% of clinicians rated improvement in all-cause mortality as more valuable than an improvement in a surrogate marker. Only 21% rated all-cause mortality as more valuable than a surrogate-enriched composite outcome.   CONCLUSIONS These findings raise concerns that clinicians and trainees may not interpret trial evidence in a way that promotes the best care for patients.
BACKGROUND Sustainable multifaceted outreach is crucial when equity between specialist services available to different sections of South Africa (SA)'s population is addressed. The healthcare disadvantage for rural compared with urban populations is exemplified in KwaZulu-Natal Province (KZN). Outreach to rural hospitals has reduced the need for patients to undergo journeys to regional or tertiary hospitals for specialist care.   OBJECTIVES Multifaceted outreach visits to seven district hospitals in western KZN by a specialist in the Pietermaritzburg Department of Internal Medicine were analysed for the period 2013 - 2014.   METHODS Church of Scotland, Vryheid, Dundee, Charles Johnson Memorial, Rietvlei, Estcourt and Greytown hospitals were visited. During each visit, data were collected on data collection forms, including patient numbers, gender and age, whether out- or inpatient, whether referred, and diagnostic categories.   RESULTS During 113 visits, of 1혻377 contacts made, 631 were outpatients and 746 were inpatients. Females formed the majority overall, but for inpatients males outnumbered females. The majority of patients were aged &gt;40 years, but over half of inpatients seen were aged &lt;40 years. A modest 15% of patients seen were referred to hospitals with specialist services. Overall, cardiovascular disease, predominantly among outpatients, was the biggest diagnostic category. Infectious diseases followed, primarily among inpatients, and then general medicine. No other category reached 10%.   CONCLUSION The analysis showed differences between diagnostic categories, especially when outpatients and inpatients were separated out. Referral patterns, age-distribution and gender distinctions were made. The value of a good database was confirmed. The multifaceted outreach may have suggested useful outcomes as well as output. The vulnerability v. sustainability of outreach programmes was emphasised.
Physicians are frequently faced with questions related to their patients care that they cannot answer. A vast number of randomised trials have tested a wide variety of behaviour-changing strategies designed to improve practitioners evidence utilisation, but systematic reviews have concluded that the effects are generally small and inconsistent. We conducted a randomised controlled trial to determine whether a question identification and solving system, using structured evidence summaries with recommendations, would change physician셲 behavior related to the care of their hospitalised patients. The trial was conducted at the secondary level, internal medicine ward. Relevant clinical questions were the units of randomisation; 14 clinicians participated in the study. The question identification and answering system was carried out using evidence summaries with recommendations based on the Grades of Recommendation, Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach stressing influence on clinician behaviour (decision/recommendation concordance). During 131 morning reports, 553 questions were identified (4.2 questions per meeting). 398 were excluded because they were not about diagnostic or therapeutic interventions or because their answers could not have impact on clinician behaviour, and 31 were excluded because of lack of time to answer them, leaving 124 included questions. The proportion of clinical decisions concordant with the proposed recommendations was 79%in the intervention arm and 44% in the control arm: relative risk 1.8 (95% CI 1.3 to 2.4), number of evidence summaries needed to change a care decision for one question raised was 3 (95% CI 2 to 6). A question identification and answering system was feasible, effectively performed and significantly influenced clinician behaviour related to the care of hospitalised patients, which suggests that interventions facilitating accessibility and interpretability of the best available evidence at the point of care have the potential to significantly impact on the quality of healthcare.
BACKGROUND The American Heart Association (AHA) guidelines from 2007 and the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE) guidelines from 2008 recommended against antibiotic prophylaxis before GI endoscopic procedures to prevent bacterial endocarditis.   OBJECTIVE To determine physician knowledge regarding these guidelines and to identify physician subgroups for which knowledge was suboptimal.   DESIGN A survey questionnaire was developed based on AHA and ASGE guidelines regarding antibiotics before endoscopy. Physicians were queried about 10 theoretical scenarios as to whether or not they would recommend before-procedure antibiotics.   SETTING The survey was administered at 3 academic medical centers.   PARTICIPANTS Attending physicians and trainees in primary care and subspecialties.   INTERVENTIONS Survey.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS Percentage of the survey questions answered correctly and predictors of correct response.   RESULTS The survey was administered to 941 participants of whom 12 declined to participate. Eighty percent (n=740/929) of participants completed the survey. The median number of correct answers was 70% (interquartile range [IQR] 50%-90%) and was similar at each institution (P=.6). A total of 7.3% (n=54) of respondents answered all questions correctly. There was no significant difference in correct responses between attending physicians and trainees or between study centers (median 7, IQR 5-9; P=.75). Gastroenterologists were more likely to answer questions correctly than other subspecialists or primary care physicians (P<.0001). On multivariate analysis, physician knowledge correlated directly with self-reported familiarity with guidelines (0.21; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.08-0.34; P=.002) and specialty (0.56; 95% CI, 0.30-0.82; P<.001) and inversely with year of medical school graduation (0.22; 95% CI, 0.07-0.37; P=.005).   LIMITATIONS Survey study that used theoretical scenarios.   CONCLUSION Physician knowledge of guidelines regarding antibiotic use before endoscopy is suboptimal. Further interventions are needed to improve the knowledge of before-procedure guidelines.
BACKGROUND Routine implementation of instruments to capture patient-reported outcomes could guide clinical practice and facilitate health services research. Audio interviews facilitate self-interviews across literacy levels.   OBJECTIVES To evaluate time burden for patients, and factors associated with response times for an audio computer-assisted self interview (ACASI) system integrated into the clinical workflow.   METHODS We developed an ACASI system, integrated with a research data warehouse. Instruments for symptom burden, self-reported health, depression screening, tobacco use, and patient satisfaction were administered through touch-screen monitors in the general medicine clinic at the Cook County Health & Hospitals System during April 8, 2011-July 27, 2012. We performed a cross-sectional study to evaluate the mean time burden per item and for each module of instruments; we evaluated factors associated with longer response latency.   RESULTS Among 1,670 interviews, the mean per-question response time was 18.4 [SD, 6.1] seconds. By multivariable analysis, age was most strongly associated with prolonged response time and increased per decade compared to < 50 years as follows (additional seconds per question; 95% CI): 50-59 years (1.4; 0.7 to 2.1 seconds); 60-69 (3.4; 2.6 to 4.1); 70-79 (5.1; 4.0 to 6.1); and 80-89 (5.5; 4.1 to 7.0). Response times also were longer for Spanish language (3.9; 2.9 to 4.9); no home computer use (3.3; 2.8 to 3.9); and, low mental self-reported health (0.6; 0.0 to 1.1). However, most interviews were completed within 10 minutes.   CONCLUSIONS An ACASI software system can be included in a patient visit and adds minimal time burden. The burden was greatest for older patients, interviews in Spanish, and for those with less computer exposure. A patient's self-reported health had minimal impact on response times.
PURPOSE To determine whether the Uniformed Services University (USU) system of workplace performance assessment for students in the internal medicine clerkship at the USU continues to be a sensitive predictor of subsequent poor performance during internship, when compared with assessments in other USU third year clerkships.   METHOD Utilizing Program Director survey results from 2007 through 2011 and U.S. Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) Step 3 examination results as the outcomes of interest, we compared performance during internship for students who had less than passing performance in the internal medicine clerkship and required remediation, against students whose performance in the internal medicine clerkship was successful. We further analyzed internship ratings for students who received less than passing grades during the same time period on other third year clerkships such as general surgery, pediatrics, obstetrics and gynecology, family medicine, and psychiatry to evaluate whether poor performance on other individual clerkships were associated with future poor performance at the internship level. Results for this recent cohort of graduates were compared with previously published findings.   RESULTS The overall survey response rate for this 5 year cohort was 81% (689/853). Students who received a less than passing grade in the internal medicine clerkship and required further remediation were 4.5 times more likely to be given poor ratings in the domain of medical expertise and 18.7 times more likely to demonstrate poor professionalism during internship. Further, students requiring internal medicine remediation were 8.5 times more likely to fail USMLE Step 3. No other individual clerkship showed any statistically significant associations with performance at the intern level. On the other hand, 40% of students who successfully remediated and did graduate were not identified during internship as having poor performance.   CONCLUSIONS Unsuccessful clinical performance which requires remediation in the third year internal medicine clerkship at Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences continues to be strongly associated with poor performance at the internship level. No significant associations existed between any of the other clerkships and poor performance during internship and Step 3 failure. The strength of this association with the internal medicine clerkship is most likely because of an increased level of sensitivity in detecting poor performance.
PURPOSE To determine how students who are referred to a competency committee for concern over performance, and ultimately judged not to require remediation, perform during internship.   METHODS Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences' students who graduated between 2007 and 2011 were included in this study. We compared the performance during internship of three groups: students who were referred to the internal medicine competency committee for review who met passing criterion, students who were reviewed by the internal medicine competency committee who were determined not to have passed the clerkship and were prescribed remediation, and students who were never reviewed by this competency committee. Program Director survey results and United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) Step 3 examination results were used as the outcomes of interest.   RESULTS The overall survey response rate for this 5-year cohort was 81% (689/853). 102 students were referred to this competency committee for review. 63/102 students were reviewed by this competency committee, given passing grades in the internal medicine clerkship, and were not required to do additional remediation. 39/102 students were given less than passing grades by this competency committee and required to perform additional clinical work in the department of medicine to remediate their performance. 751 students were never presented to this competency committee. Compared to students who were never presented for review, the group of reviewed students who did not require remediation was 5.6 times more likely to receive low internship survey ratings in the realm of professionalism, 8.6 times more likely to receive low ratings in the domain of medical expertise, and had a higher rate of USMLE Step 3 failure (9.4% vs. 2.8%). When comparing the reviewed group to students who were reviewed and also required remediation, the only significant difference between groups regarding professionalism ratings with 50% of the group requiring remediation garnering low ratings compared to 18% of the reviewed group.   CONCLUSIONS Students who are referred to a committee for review following completion of their internal medicine clerkship are more likely to receive poor ratings in internship and fail USMLE Step 3 compared to students whose performance in the medicine clerkship does not trigger a committee review. These findings provide validity evidence for our competency committee review in that the students identified as requiring further clinical work had significantly higher rates of poor ratings in professionalism than students who were reviewed by the competency committee but not required to remediate. Additionally, students reviewed but not required to remediate were nonetheless at risk of low internship ratings, suggesting that these students might need some intervention prior to graduation.
BACKGROUND Medical students learn clinical reasoning, in part, through patient care. Although the numbers of patients seen is associated with knowledge examination scores, studies have not demonstrated an association between patient problems and an assessment of clinical reasoning.   AIM To examine the reliability of a clinical reasoning examination and investigate whether there was association between internal medicine core clerkship students' performance on this examination and the number of patients they saw with matching problems during their internal medicine clerkship.   METHODS Students on the core internal medicine clerkship at the Uniformed Services University students log 11 core patient problems based on the Clerkship Directors in Internal Medicine curriculum. On a final clerkship examination (Multistep), students watch a scripted video encounter between physician and patient actors that assesses three sequential steps in clinical reasoning: Step One focuses on history and physical examination; Step Two, students write a problem list after viewing additional clinical findings; Step Three, students complete a prioritized differential diagnosis and treatment plan. Each Multistep examination has three different cases. For graduating classes 2010-2012 (n = 497), we matched the number of patients seen with the problem most represented by the Multistep cases (epigastric pain, generalized edema, monoarticular arthritis, angina, syncope, pleuritic chest pain). We report two-way Pearson correlations between the number of patients students reported with similar problems and the student's percent score on: Step One, Step Two, Step Three, and Overall Test.   RESULTS Multistep reliability: Step 1, 0.6 to 0.8; Step 2, 0.41 to 0.65; Step 3, 0.53 to 0.78; Overall examination (3 cases): 0.74 to 0.83. For three problems, the number of patients seen had small to modest correlations with the Multistep Examination of Analytic Ability total score (r = 0.27 for pleuritic pain, p < 0.05, n = 81 patients; r = 0.14 for epigastric pain, p < 0.05, n = 324 patients; r = 0.19 for generalized edema, p < 0.05, n = 118 patients). DISCUSSION or   CONCLUSION Although a reliable assessment, student performance on a clinical reasoning examination was weakly associated with the numbers of patients seen with similar problems. This may be as a result of transfer of knowledge between clinical and examination settings, the complexity of clinical reasoning, or the limits of reliability with patient logs and the Multistep.
BACKGROUND Clinical reasoning is essential for the practice of medicine. Dual process theory conceptualizes reasoning as falling into two general categories: nonanalytic reasoning (pattern recognition) and analytic reasoning (active comparing and contrasting of alternatives). The debate continues regarding how expert performance develops and how individuals make the best use of analytic and nonanalytic processes. Several investigators have identified the unexpected finding that intermediates tend to perform better on licensing examination items than experts, which has been termed the 'intermediate effect.'   PURPOSE We explored differences between faculty and residents on multiple-choice questions (MCQs) using dual process measures (both reading and answering times) to inform this ongoing debate.   METHOD Faculty (board-certified internists; experts) and residents (internal medicine interns; intermediates) answered live licensing examination MCQs (U.S. Medical Licensing Examination Step 2 Clinical Knowledge and American Board of Internal Medicine Certifying Examination) while being timed. We conducted repeated analysis of variance to compare the 2 groups on average reading time, answering time, and accuracy on various types of items.   RESULTS Faculty and residents did not differ significantly in reading time [F (1,35) = 0.01, p = 0.93], answering time [F (1,35) = 0.60, p = 0.44], or accuracy [F (1,35) = 0.24, p = 0.63] regardless of easy or hard items.   DISCUSSION Dual process theory was not evidenced in this study. However, this lack of difference between faculty and residents may have been affected by the small sample size of participants and MCQs may not reflect how physicians made decisions in actual practice setting.
BACKGROUND Art and humanities can enhance undergraduate medical education curricular objectives. Most commonly, art is used to help students learn observational skills, such as medical interviewing and physical diagnosis. Educators concurrently struggle to find ways to meaningfully teach professional values within crowded curricula.   AIM This curriculum aimed to combine art and reflection to actively convey tenets of medical professionalism.   SETTING Internal medicine clerkship at a single institution.   PARTICIPANTS Third-year students.   PROGRAM DESCRIPTION Students reviewed an online module describing attributes of medical professionalism before completing a 4-step written exercise stimulated by viewing a work of art and based on a critical incident from their own experiences. A faculty member reviewed the essays and facilitated small group discussion to normalize the students' emotional responses and generalize their observations to others.   PROGRAM EVALUATION The curriculum was acceptable to students and enthusiastically received by faculty. Efforts to assess the effects and durability of the exercise on student behavior are ongoing.   DISCUSSION Artwork can enhance student reflection on professional values. This model efficiently and creatively meets curricular professionalism objectives.
BACKGROUND Sleep deprivation and fatigue have been associated with medical errors, clinical performance decrements, and reduced quality of life for both practicing physicians and medical students. Greater understanding of the impact of sleep quantity on clinical reasoning could improve patient care. The purpose of our pilot study was to examine relationships between clinical reasoning (assessed by functional magnetic resonance imaging) and sleep time (measured in different ways by actigraphy) while answering multiple-choice questions (MCQs) from licensing agencies.   METHODS Residents and faculty were administered a clinical reasoning exercise (MCQs from licensing bodies) during functional magnetic resonance imaging. Usual sleep patterns were sampled with actigraphy. Covariate analysis was used to examine the relationship between sleep duration (mean sleep, minimum sleep, maximum sleep) and brain activity during clinical reasoning (solving MCQs from licensing bodies).   RESULTS The mean sleep time over the duration of monitoring for the group was 7.19 hours (SD 0.66) with a range of 6.1 to 8.1 hours (internal medicine faculty 7.1 hours, SD 0.41; internal medicine residents 7.27 hours, SD 0.92). There was a negative relationship between activation in the prefrontal cortex and minimum sleep time while reflecting on MCQs.   CONCLUSION Our findings provide evidence that the quantity of sleep can modulate brain activity while completing a clinically meaningful task that should be confirmed in larger studies. Our findings suggest that the construct of sleepiness may be more complex than appreciated by many and that the most important of these sleep measures in terms of outcomes remains to be determined.
PURPOSE To understand the disciplinary contexts in which faculty work, the authors examined demographics, professional characteristics, research productivity, and advancement across seven clinical departments at Harvard Medical School (HMS) and nationally.   METHOD HMS analyses included faculty from seven clinical departments-anesthesiology, medicine, neurology, pediatrics, psychiatry, radiology, and surgery-in May 2011 (N = 7,304). National analyses included faculty at 141 U.S. medical schools in the same seven departments as of December 31, 2011 (N = 91,414). The authors used chi-square and Wilcoxon Mann-Whitney tests to compare departmental characteristics.   RESULTS Heterogeneity in demographics, professional characteristics, and advancement across departments was observed in HMS and national data. At HMS, psychiatry had the highest percentage of underrepresented minority faculty at 6.6% (75/1,139). In anesthesiology, 24.2% (128/530) of faculty were Asian, whereas in psychiatry only 7.9% (90/1,139) were (P < .0001). Female faculty were the majority in pediatrics and psychiatry, whereas in surgery 26.3% (172/654) of the faculty were female (P < .0001). At HMS, surgery, radiology, and neurology had the shortest median times to promotion and the highest median number of publications, H-index, and second-degree centrality. Neurology also had the highest percentage of faculty who had been principal investigators on a National Institutes of Health-funded grant.   CONCLUSIONS There were differences in demographics, professional characteristics, and advancement across clinical departments at HMS and nationally. The context in which faculty work, of which department is a proxy, should be accounted for in research on faculty career outcomes and diversity inclusion in academic medicine.
BACKGROUND Monitoring the activity of ALT (SGPT) in the blood is part of the routine, clinical-laboratory follow-up in hospitalized patients. In most cases, activity levels which are above the normal range are considered pathology, mostly related to lysis of hepatocytes, as in cases of hepatitis. Little has been investigated and published in regard to cases in which the ALT activity level is lower than normal.   PATIENTS AND METHODS Since normal ALT activity is regarded essential for normal metabolism and homeostasis, we decided to evaluate the extent to which low ALT levels are found in healthy and hospitalized patient populations and to characterize its circumstances and etiology. Furthermore, we measured the blood concentration of vitamin B6 (being the source for the ALT co-factor, Pyridoxal-5-Phosphate) in a random sample of patients with lower than normal ALT activity level.   RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS The results of the current study showed a high prevalence, exceeding a third of hospitalized patients in internal medicine departments have low levels of ALT in the serum, and that a linear correlation (p = 0.0004, r = 0.47) exists between lower than normal ALT activity and low concentrations of vitamin B6 in the serum. The authors attribute these findings to a high prevalence of frailty amongst hospitalized patients. We aim to conduct further investigations intended to better characterize quantifiable parameters of frailty amongst our patient population.
AIMS Hypoglycemia is a potential risk in the management of patients suffering from type 2 diabetes (T2DM) and hospitalized in internal medicine units (IMUs). The aim of this analysis was to evaluate incidence of hypoglycemia and related risk factors in a group of patients admitted to IMUs.   METHODS We used the FADOI-DIAMOND study carried out in 53 Italian IMUs. The DIAMOND design included two cross-sectional surveys interspersed with an educational program. In both phases each center reviewed the charts of the last 30 hospitalized patients with known T2DM (n=3167), including information about hypoglycemia during hospital stay. The association between occurrence of hypoglycemia and potential predictors was evaluated by means of a multivariable logistic regression analysis.   RESULTS A total of 385 symptomatic hypoglycemic events were observed (rate=12%). Advanced age, cognitive dysfunction, and nephropathy were associated with hypoglycemia. Hypoglycemia occurred in 19.4% of patients treated according to the insulin sliding-scale method versus 11.4% of patients treated with basal bolus (p<0.01). More patients with hypoglycemia received sulfonylureas versus the no-hypoglycemia group (28.3% versus 20.6%, p<0.001). Significantly longer length of hospital stay and increased in-hospital mortality were found in the group with hypoglycemia compared with the no-hypoglycemia group (12.7짹10.9 versus 9.6짹6.5 days; 8.8% versus 4.8%, p<0.01).   CONCLUSIONS Hypoglycemia in hospitalized patients with diabetes is associated with increased length of hospitalization and in-hospital mortality. Identification of patients at increased risk of hypoglycemia may be important for optimally adapting treatment and patient management.
International and national campaigns draw attention worldwide to the rational use of the available antibiotics. This has been stimulated by the high prevalence rates of drug-resistant pathogens, such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE), a threatening spread of development of resistance in Gram-negative rod-shaped bacteria and the selection of Clostridium difficile with a simultaneous clear reduction in the development of new antibiotics. The implementation of antibiotic stewardship programs aims to maintain their effectiveness by a rational use of the available antibiotics. The essential target of therapy with antibiotics is successful treatment of individual patients with bacterial infections. The optimal clinical treatment results can only be achieved when the toxicity, selection of pathogens and development of resistance are minimized. This article presents the principles of a rational antibiotic therapy.
BACKGROUND Many residents often encounter several problems to accomplish their research projects, a requirement to complete medical residency training in Thailand. This study aimed to explore perceived obstacles and attitude of Thai residents toward conducting research.   MATERIAL AND METHOD The questionnaires were distributed among 640 residents at King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital from November to December 2014. Structured-questionnaires explored the participants' characteristics, research experience, purpose of conducting research, motivations and perceived barriers to research. Five-pointed Likert scale was used to determine residents' attitude toward research. Descriptive statistical analysis was used.   RESULTS 246 respondents were achieved from 640 residents surveyed, yielding a response rate of 39.7%. The mean age was 28.21 짹 1.60 years and 66.7% was female. Most of them were studying in internal medicine, pediatrics and anesthesiology. Residency year ranged from 1st-4th year and the ratio was 21.5: 20.8:18:1. The purposes to conduct the research were to meet the program requirement (72.4%), to develop research skills (23.6%), and to accrue credentials for future fellowship application (2.4%). While 52.4% pursued research in order to bolster research experience, 12.6% would like to publish and 4.5% would like to present in the international conference, as high as 39.8% had not motivation. Perceived barriers were limited statistical knowledge, inadequate time and, difficulty formulating research topic. In addition, 50.6% were assigned research topics from advisors. Most of the residents agreed that conducting research enhanced inquiry-based learning and enabled them to better understand research methodology. Nevertheless, they thought that researching was complicated, time-consuming, and tedious.   CONCLUSION Most residents were motivated to conduct research projects but perceived obstacles and negative attitude might erode their motivation for research.
'Choosing wisely - DGIM' is an initiative of the German Society of Internal Medicine (DGIM) to strengthen the quality of diagnostics and indications for therapy. Aspects of inappropriate patient care are identified based on scientific evidence in collaboration with12 internal medicine and associated societies. Identified aspects are reviewed and endorsed by an interdisciplinary consensus committee. Addressed are those diagnostic and therapeutic measures which are rarely used despite scientific evidence of their usefulness and those which are frequently used although clear evidence exists that the measures are not useful or even harmful. The resulting positive or negative recommendations are intended to support physicians in the assessment of indications. The relevance of the 'Choosing wisely - DGIM' initiative is confirmed by a survey involving 4200 members of DGIM.
Within the framework of the Choosing wisely initiative of the German Society for Internal Medicine, all scientific societies associated with internal medicine were requested to highlight the unnecessary or underused medical tests or procedures out of the 60 defined examples, which are of immediate relevance within the doctor-patient interaction. Each of the 12 scientific internal medicine societies compiled and substantiated 2 recommendations. This resulted in a spectrum of important recommendations covering the entire field of internal medicine. In difficult situations these recommendations should contribute to developing and supporting the dialogue with patients on an evidence-based level.
For decades, residents believed to work harder have been referred to as having a 'black cloud'. Residency training programmes recently instituted changes to improve physician wellness and achieve comparable clinical workload. All Internal Medicine residents in the internship class of 2014 at Columbia were surveyed to assess for the ongoing presence of 'black cloud' trainees. While some residents are still thought to have this designation, they did not have a greater workload when compared to their peers.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES Over 70% of smokers visit a physician annually, and physicians are well-positioned to assist patients in smoking cessation. Residency offers the ideal setting to train physicians in best practices for treatment of nicotine dependence. We hypothesized that experiential learning during a smoking cessation medical clinic (SCMC) rotation would be associated with an improvement in smoking cessation practice of internal medicine (IM) interns in outpatient primary care and inpatient settings.   METHODS This was a prospective study performed at a large university-affiliated hospital. Forty IM interns rotated through SCMC. After a lecture on nicotine addiction and treatment, interns treated SCMC patients under direct supervision of an attending pulmonologist. Interns' smoking cessation practices before and after SCMC rotation were evaluated through chart review over 1 year. Upon study completion, a survey to assess confidence was administered. Paired t tests measured changes in rates of identifying smokers, offering pharmacological treatment and counseling.   RESULTS A total of 5,622 outpatient and 683 inpatient charts of interns' encounters with patients were reviewed. Following SCMC rotation, there was an increase in identifying active smokers (7.1% versus 18.7%), prescribing therapy for smoking cessation (6.5% versus 18.0%), and providing counseling (30.9% versus 42.3%) to outpatients. For inpatients, there was an increase in nicotine replacement during admission (12.9% versus 37.4%) and prescription of therapy upon discharge (5.7% versus 16.1%). Interns reported confidence in providing appropriate counseling and treatment.   CONCLUSIONS SCMC experience positively impacted smoking cessation treatment by IM interns, causing a measurable change in their practice.
BACKGROUND Although acute geriatric units have improved the outcomes of hospitalized seniors, it is uncertain as to whether hospitalist care by geriatricians outside of these units confers similar benefit.   OBJECTIVE To determine whether hospitalist care by geriatricians reduces short-term mortality and readmission, and length of stay (LOS) for seniors aged 80 years and older with acute medical illnesses compared with care by other internists.   DESIGN Retrospective cohort study using administrative and chart review data on demographic, admission-related, and clinical information of hospital episodes.   SETTING General internal medicine department of an acute-care hospital in Singapore from 2005 to 2008.   PATIENTS Seniors aged 80 years and older with specific focus on 2 subgroups with premorbid functional impairment and acute geriatric syndromes.   INTERVENTION Hospitalist care by geriatricians compared with care by other internists.   MEASURES Hospital mortality, 30-day mortality or readmission, and LOS.   RESULTS For 1944 hospital episodes (intervention: 968, control: 976), there was a nonsignificant trend toward lower hospital mortality (15.5% vs 16.9%) but not 30-day mortality or readmission, or LOS for care by geriatricians compared with care by other internists. A marginally stronger trend toward lower hospital mortality for care by geriatricians among those with acute geriatric syndromes (20.2% vs 23.1%) was observed. Similar treatment effects were found after adjustment for demographic, admission-related, and clinical factors.   CONCLUSIONS For seniors aged 80 years and over with acute medical illness, hospitalist care by geriatricians did not significantly reduce short-term mortality, readmission, or LOS, compared with care by other internists.
OBJECTIVE Eating disorders (EDs) result in the highest mortality rate of all psychiatric disorders, and in the United States, approximately one in twenty females suffers from an eating disorder. However, training provided within residency programs to address the needs of these patients is sparse. The objective of this study was to conduct a national survey that assesses the amount of EDs training for trainees across five ACGME accredited specialties: internal medicine, pediatrics, family medicine, psychiatry, and child and adolescent psychiatry. The results of the survey will be used to develop strategies to improve eating disorder education among residents.   METHOD Eight hundred eighty training coordinators were contacted using information available on the ACGME website and asked to complete the survey.   RESULTS Of the 637 responding programs, 514 did not offer any scheduled or elective rotations for EDs. Of the 123 programs offering rotations, only 42 offered a formal, scheduled rotation. Child and adolescent psychiatry offered the most clinical experiences, and pediatric programs offered the greatest number of didactic hours on EDs.   DISCUSSION Training in EDs is limited. Simulated patient encounters, massive open online courses, web-based curricula, dedicated rotations and clinical experiences, didactic curricula, and brief-training programs may help to improve eating disorder diagnostic and treatment skills among trainees.
IMPORTANCE Handover is the process of transferring pertinent patient information and clinical responsibility between health care practitioners. Few studies have examined morning handover from the overnight trainee to the daytime team.   OBJECTIVE To characterize current morning handover practices in 2 academic medical centers by assessing the frequency of omissions of clinically important overnight issues during morning handover and identifying factors that influence the occurrence of such omissions.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS A prospective, point-prevalence study was conducted in the general internal medicine wards of 2 tertiary care academic medical centers in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, in 2012 and 2013. Participants included on-call third-year medical students and first- and second-year residents.   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Completeness of morning handover of clinically important overnight issues identified using a targeted medical records review and processes of morning handover characterized by direct observation.   RESULTS We identified 141 clinically important overnight issues during 26 days of observation. The on-call trainee omitted 40.4% (95% CI, 32.3%-48.5%) of clinically important issues during morning handover and did not document any information in the patient's medical record for 85.8% (95% CI 80.1%-91.6%) of these issues. By univariate analysis, running the list patient-by-patient (ie, the entire team discusses each patient) (OR, 4.32; 95% CI, 1.94-9.60; P <.001) and using a dedicated handover location (OR, 2.61; 95% CI, 1.30-5.22; P =.007) positively correlated with handover of an issue taking place, whereas distractions in the meeting area inversely correlated with the likelihood of handover of an issue taking place (OR, 0.96 for every increase in 1 distraction; 95% CI, 0.93-0.98; P =.002). Using a multivariate mixed-effects model, only running the list remained as an independent predictor of the handover of an issue (OR, 3.80; 95% CI, 1.25-11.49; P =.02).   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE On-call trainees omit numerous clinically important issues when handing over to the daytime team. Training programs should introduce educational activities and workflow changes, and provide dedicated time and a distraction-free environment, to improve handover of on-call issues.
As part of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education's Next Accreditation System, residency programs must connect resident-physician education to improved patient care outcomes. Residency training programs, however, face multiple obstacles in doing so. Results from residency quality improvement (QI) curricula tend to show improvement in simple process-based measures but not in more complex outcomes of care such as diabetes or blood pressure control. In this article, the authors describe the evolution of their QI educational program for internal medicine residents at the University of Cincinnati Medical Center within the structure of a novel training model called the Ambulatory Long Block. They discuss a resident-run project that led to reduced rates of patients with uncontrolled diabetes as an example of improvement in outcome measures. Despite favorable results from that particular resident group, the successful intervention did not spread practice-wide. Using this example, they detail the phases of evolution and lessons learned from their curriculum from 2006 to 2014 within a framework of previously published general principles for successful QI education, including those of exemplary care and learning sites. Successful programs require leadership, faculty expertise and mentorship, data management, learner buy-in, and patient engagement. Their experience will hopefully be of help to others as they attempt to simultaneously improve care and education. Further research and innovation are needed in this area, including optimizing strategies for strengthening resident-driven projects through partnership with nursing, allied health, and longitudinally engaged faculty members.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES The patient-centered medical home (PCMH) is an important model of primary care with a promise of improving quality, reducing costs, and improving patient satisfaction. Many primary care residency programs have PCMH initiatives, but it is unclear if residents are interested in learning more about the PCMH. Our objective was to examine primary care residents' attitudes and knowledge about the PCMH model and how it relates to them.   METHODS A total of 82 first- through third-year family medicine and internal medicine residents participated in a survey with 25 questions. Descriptive statistics were performed to describe the responses.   RESULTS The survey response rate was 91%. Sixty-one percent of residents thought they had 'poor' or 'fair' knowledge of the PCMH, and 84% thought it was important to be knowledgeable about the PCMH. Thirty-four percent rated their ability to describe the PCMH as 'well' or 'very well.' Eighty-six percent thought they learned 'too little' or 'way too little' about the PCMH during medical school. The majority (88%) of residents were interested in learning more about the PCMH.   CONCLUSIONS Family and internal medicine residents are interested in learning more about the PCMH during residency. Residents may benefit from experiential learning that focuses on the PCMH.
BACKGROUND In countries such as United States and European Nations changes have been proposed regarding to duty and academic structure of specialists in training, this implies adjustments in the norms concerning the number of hours a week that residents work. The main argument which has underpinned such transformations is based on the assumption that excessive working hours (more than 16 hours uninterrupted) cause cognitive and psychomotor disorders in residents.   OBJECTIVE To evaluate the association between sleep deprivation and cognitive and psychomotor skills of a sample of residents of different specialties of Medicine.   METHODS Longitudinal study with measurements pre and post shifts, in 31 residents of Medicine. The measured variables were: cognitive and psychomotor skills, demographic data and conditions of the shift, quality of sleep and psychopathology.   RESULTS 81% residents showed detriment in at least one of the tests, however, in psychomotor skills significant different results were found in CPR maneuvers between pre and post shift with an improvement in scores.   CONCLUSIONS Sleep deprivation causes detriment of cognitive and psychomotor skills. While our results can't be generalized, they may constitute a precedent for possible changes in the working hours of medical residencies.
With approximately 4 physicians per 100,000 inhabitants, Mozambique faces one of the most severe health care provider shortages in Sub-Saharan Africa. The lack of sufficient well-trained medical school faculty is one of Mozambique's major barrier to producing new physicians annually. A partnership between the Universidade Eduardo Mondlane and the University of California, San Diego, has addressed this challenge with support from the Medical Education Partnership Initiative. After an initial needs assessment involving questionnaires and focus groups of residents, and working with key members from the Ministry of Health, the Medical Council, and Maputo Central Hospital, a set of interventions was designed. The hospital's internal medicine residency program was chosen as the focus for the plan. Interventions included curriculum design, new teaching methodologies, investment in an informatics infrastructure for access to digital references, building capacity to support clinical research, and providing financial incentives to retain junior faculty. The number of candidates entering the internal medicine residency program has increased, and detailed monitoring and evaluation is measuring the impact of these changes on the quality of training. These changes are expected to improve the long-term quality of postgraduate training in general through dissemination to other departments. They also have the potential to facilitate equitable distribution of specialists nationwide by expanding postgraduate training to other hospitals and universities.
BACKGROUND For many molecularly targeted agents, the probability of response may be assumed to either increase or increase and then plateau in the tested dose range. Therefore, identifying the maximum effective dose, defined as the lowest dose that achieves a pre-specified target response and beyond which improvement in the response is unlikely, becomes increasingly important. Recently, a class of Bayesian designs for single-arm phase II clinical trials based on hypothesis tests and nonlocal alternative prior densities has been proposed and shown to outperform common Bayesian designs based on posterior credible intervals and common frequentist designs. We extend this and related approaches to the design of phase II oncology trials, with the goal of identifying the maximum effective dose among a small number of pre-specified doses.   METHODS We propose two new Bayesian designs with continuous monitoring of response rates across doses to identify the maximum effective dose, assuming monotonicity of the response rate across doses. The first design is based on Bayesian hypothesis tests. To determine whether each dose level achieves a pre-specified target response rate and whether the response rates between doses are equal, multiple statistical hypotheses are defined using nonlocal alternative prior densities. The second design is based on Bayesian model averaging and also uses nonlocal alternative priors. We conduct simulation studies to evaluate the operating characteristics of the proposed designs, and compare them with three alternative designs.   RESULTS In terms of the likelihood of drawing a correct conclusion using similar between-design average sample sizes, the performance of our proposed design based on Bayesian hypothesis tests and nonlocal alternative priors is more robust than that of the other designs. Specifically, the proposed Bayesian hypothesis test-based design has the largest probability of being the best design among all designs under comparison and the smallest probability of being an inadequate design, under sensible definitions of the best design and an inadequate design, respectively.   CONCLUSIONS The use of Bayesian hypothesis tests and nonlocal alternative priors under ordering constraints between dose groups results in a robust performance of the design, which is thus superior to other common designs.
Objective. To compare peer teaching in a medical and a pharmacy clinical teaching unit and to provide suggestions for future research in pharmacy near-peer teaching. Methods. This exploratory observational study used principles of ethnographic methodology for data collection and analysis. Observations were collected in a large downtown teaching hospital. An average of 4-6 hours per day were spent observing a team of medical trainees from the Faculty (School) of Medicine in the general internal medicine (unit for two weeks, followed by a team of pharmacy trainees in an ambulatory hemodialysis (HD) unit for two weeks. Data was collected through field notes and informal interviews that were audiotaped and subsequently transcribed. Data was interpreted by the observer and reviewed weekly by two impartial pharmacists. Results. Five major themes emerged: (1) influence of peer teaching hierarchy; (2) educational distance between peer learners and teachers; (3) effect of the clinical teaching unit size on peer learning; (4) trainees' perception of their teaching role in the clinical teaching unit; and (5) influence of daily schedule and workload on peer teaching. As opposed to pharmacy, a hierarchy and pyramidal structure of peer teaching was observed in medical experiential training. There appeared to be no effect of educational distance on near peer teaching; however, perception of teaching role and influence of daily schedule affected near-peer teaching. Conclusion. Through initial comparisons of medical and pharmacy clinical teaching units, this study provides a reflection of elements that may be necessary to successfully implement near-peer teaching in pharmacy experiential training. Future studies in this area should assess learning outcomes and participant satisfaction, preceptor workload, and impact on patient care.
BACKGROUND Subspecialty fellows can serve as a tremendous educational resource to residents; however, there are multiple barriers to an effective resident-fellow teaching interaction in the setting of inpatient consultation. We designed and evaluated a resident-directed intervention to enhance communication and teaching during consultation on the general medicine wards.   METHODS Five medical teams were randomized to receive the intervention over a 3 month period (3 control, 2 intervention teams). The intervention was evaluated with pre and post-intervention surveys.   RESULTS Fifty-nine of 112 interns completed the pre-intervention survey, and 58 completed the post-intervention survey (53혻% response rate). At baseline, 83혻% of the interns noted that they had in-person interactions with fellows less than 50혻% of the time. 81혻% responded that they received teaching from fellows in less than 50혻% of consultations. Following the intervention, the percentage of interns who had an in-person interaction with fellows greater than 50혻% of the time increased in the intervention group (9혻% control versus 30혻% intervention, p=0.05). Additionally, interns in the intervention group reported receiving teaching in more than 50혻% of their interactions more frequently (19혻% control versus 42혻% intervention, p=0.05). There were no differences in other measures of teaching and communication.   CONCLUSIONS We demonstrate that a time-efficient intervention increased perceptions of in-person communication and the number of teaching interactions between interns and fellows. Further studies are warranted to determine whether such an approach can impact resident learning and improve patient care.
BACKGROUND Attending rounds is a key component of patient care and education at teaching hospitals, yet there is an absence of studies addressing trainees' perceptions of rounds.   OBJECTIVE To determine perceptions of pediatrics and internal medicine residents about the current and ideal purposes of inpatient rounds on hospitalist services.   METHODS In this multi-institutional qualitative study, the authors conducted focus groups with a purposive sample of internal medicine and pediatrics residents at 4 teaching hospitals. The constant comparative method was used to identify themes and codes.   RESULTS The study identified 4 themes: patient care, clinical education, patient/family involvement, and evaluation. Patient care included references to activities on rounds that forwarded care of the patient. Clinical education pertained to teaching/learning on rounds. Patient/family involvement encompassed comments about incorporating patients and families on rounds. Evaluation described residents demonstrating skill for attendings.   CONCLUSIONS Resident perceptions of the purposes of rounds aligned with rounding activities described by prior observational studies of rounds. The influence of time pressures and the divergent needs of participants on today's rounds placed these identified purposes in tension, and led to resident dissatisfaction in the achievement of all of them. Suboptimal congruency exists between perceived resident clinical education and specialty-specific milestones. These findings suggest a need for education of multiple stakeholders by (1) enhancing faculty teaching strategies to maximize clinical education while minimizing inefficiencies; (2) informing residents about the value of patient interactions and family-centered rounds; and (3) educating program directors in proper alignment of inpatient rotational objectives to the milestones.
BACKGROUND Continuity of care is a critical element of residents' educational experience in primary care programs.   OBJECTIVE We examined how continuity in resident practices compares to nonteaching practices, identified factors associated with increased continuity, and explored the association between continuity and quality measures.   METHODS We analyzed 117235 patient visits to 4 resident practices (26 resident teams in internal medicine, pediatrics, family medicine, and medicine-pediatrics) and 270242 visits to nonteaching community practices between July 2013 and May 2014. We defined continuity from both clinician and patient perspectives, and used logistic regression models to examine the influence of factors on continuity while controlling for postgraduate year, patient age, gender, race, and insurance.   RESULTS Continuity was greater at nonteaching sites compared to resident practices (87.3% versus 56.2%, P<.001). Resident continuity ranged from 33.1% to 83.7% among resident sites. Factors associated with improved resident continuity included absence of advanced practice providers (71.5% versus 52.3%); consistent use of scheduling protocols (77.5% versus 33.1%); rescheduling policies (71.5% versus 41.3%); increased faculty clinical time (71.5% versus 46.3%); and dismissal policies for excessive missed appointments (71.5% versus 62.5%, P<.001 for all). Increased continuity was associated with improved rates of diabetic control (62.8% versus 54.6%); hypertension control (82.8% versus 57.5%); screening colonoscopy (69.2% versus 31.9%); and mammography (74.8% versus 38.2%, P<.001 for all).   CONCLUSIONS Increased clinical faculty time, scheduling protocols, and absence of advanced practice providers were most strongly associated with increasing continuity. Increased continuity was associated with improved quality measures.
BACKGROUND The long-term retention of knowledge and skills in bedside ultrasound by internal medicine residents after ultrasound training is not well understood.   OBJECTIVE We sought to determine whether knowledge and skills acquired from focused training in bedside ultrasound are retained over time, and whether retention is related to independent practice.   METHODS We conducted a prospective observational trial of 101 internal medicine residents at an academic medical center who participated in a bedside ultrasound workshop followed by 12 months of independent practice. Performance was measured on image-based knowledge and skills assessment using direct observation, both before the workshop and 12 months later. Individual usage data were obtained along with a survey on attitudes toward bedside ultrasound.   RESULTS Participants' mean knowledge assessment score increased from a baseline of 63.7% to 84.5% immediately after training (P<.001). At 12 months, mean knowledge score fell to 73.0%, significantly different from both prior assessments (P<.001). Despite knowledge decline, the mean skills assessment score improved from a baseline of 30.5% to 50.4% at 12 months (P<.001). Residents reporting more ultrasound use (> 25 examinations) had higher scores in baseline knowledge and skills assessments than those with lower usage (< 25 examinations). Change in knowledge and image acquisition skills between assessments was equal in both subgroups.   CONCLUSIONS Residents' knowledge of ultrasound improved after brief training but decayed over time, whereas skills showed marginal improvement over the study, with minimal support. Growth and retention of ultrasound abilities were not impacted by usage rates.
BACKGROUND Integrating teaching and hands-on experience in quality improvement (QI) may increase the learning and the impact of resident QI work.   OBJECTIVE We sought to determine the clinical and educational impact of an integrated QI curriculum.   METHODS This clustered, randomized trial with early and late intervention groups used mixed methods evaluation. For almost 2 years, internal medicine residents from Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center on the inpatient teams at the White River Junction VA participated in the QI curriculum. QI project effectiveness was assessed using statistical process control. Learning outcomes were assessed with the Quality Improvement Knowledge Application Tool-Revised (QIKAT-R) and through self-efficacy, interprofessional care attitudes, and satisfaction of learners. Free text responses by residents and a focus group of nurses who worked with the residents provided information about the acceptability of the intervention.   RESULTS The QI projects improved many clinical processes and outcomes, but not all led to improvements. Educational outcome response rates were 65% (68 of 105) at baseline, 50% (18 of 36) for the early intervention group at midpoint, 67% (24 of 36) for the control group at midpoint, and 53% (42 of 80) for the late intervention group. Composite QIKAT-R scores (range, 0-27) increased from 13.3 at baseline to 15.3 at end point (P<.01), as did the self-efficacy composite score (P<.05). Satisfaction with the curriculum was rated highly by all participants.   CONCLUSIONS Learning and participating in hands-on QI can be integrated into the usual inpatient work of resident physicians.
BACKGROUND Developing effective leadership skills in physicians is critical for safe patient care. Few residency-based models of leadership training exist.   OBJECTIVE We evaluated residents' readiness to engage in leadership training, feasibility of implementing training for all residents, and residents' acceptance of training.   METHODS In its fourth year, the Leadership Development Program (LDP) consists of twelve 90-minute modules (eg, Team Decision Making and Bias, Leadership Styles, Authentic Leadership) targeting all categorical postgraduate year (PGY) 1 residents. Modules are taught during regularly scheduled educational time. Focus group surveys and discussions, as well as annual surveys of PGY-1s assessed residents' readiness to engage in training. LDP feasibility was assessed by considering sustainability of program structures and faculty retention, and resident acceptance of training was assessed by measuring attendance, with the attendance goal of 8 of 12 modules.   RESULTS Residents thought leadership training would be valuable if content remained applicable to daily work, and PGY-1 residents expressed high levels of interest in training. The LDP is part of the core educational programming for PGY-1 residents. Except for 2 modules, faculty presenters have remained consistent. During academic year 2014-2015, 45% (13 of 29) of categorical residents participated in at least 8 of 12 modules, and 72% (21 of 29) participated in at least 7 of 12. To date, 125 categorical residents have participated in training.   CONCLUSIONS Residents appeared ready to engage in leadership training, and the LDP was feasible to implement. The attendance goal was not met, but attendance was sufficient to justify program continuation.
BACKGROUND Burnout is a common issue in internal medicine residents, and its impact on medical errors and professionalism is an important subject of investigation.   OBJECTIVE To evaluate differences in medical errors and professionalism in internal medicine residents with and without burnout.   METHODS A single institution observational cohort study was conducted between June 2011 and July 2012. Burnout was measured using the Maslach Burnout Inventory to generate subscores for the following 3 domains: emotional exhaustion, depersonalization, and sense of personal accomplishment. By convention, burnout was defined as a high emotional exhaustion or depersonalization subscore. Medication prescription error rate was the chosen measure of medical errors. Professionalism was measured cumulatively through examining discharge summaries completed within 48 hours, outpatient charts completed within 72 hours, and the average time to review outpatient laboratory tests.   RESULTS Of a total of 54 eligible first-year residents, 53 (98%) and 32 (59%) completed the initial and follow-up surveys, respectively. Residents with year-end burnout had a lower rate of medication prescription errors (0.553 versus 0.780, P=.007). Discharge summaries completed within 48 hours of discharge (83.8% versus 84.0%, P=.93), outpatient charts completed within 72 hours of encounter (93.7% versus 94.3%, P=.31), and time (minutes) to review outpatient laboratory test results (72.3 versus 26.9, P=.28) were similar between residents with and without year-end burnout.   CONCLUSIONS This study found a small decrease in medical errors in residents with year-end burnout compared to burnout-free residents and no difference in selected measures of professionalism.
The direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) are drugs used in clinical practice since 2009 for the prevention of stroke or systemic embolism in non-valvular atrial fibrillation, and for the treatment and secondary prevention of venous thromboembolism. The four DOACs, including the three factor Xa inhibitors (rivaroxaban, apixaban and edoxaban) and one direct thrombin inhibitor (dabigatran) provide oral anticoagulation therapy alternatives to Vitamin K antagonists (VKAs). Despite their clear advantages, the DOACs require on the part of the internist a thorough knowledge of their pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic characteristics to ensure their correct use, laboratory monitoring and the appropriate management of adverse events. This document represents a consensus paper on the use of DOACs by representatives of three Italian scientific societies: the Italian Society of Internal Medicine (SIMI), the Federation of the Associations of Hospital Managers (FADOI), and the Society for the Study of Haemostasis and Thrombosis (SISET). This document formulates expert opinion guidance for pragmatic managing, monitoring and reversing the anticoagulant effect of DOACs in both chronic and emergency settings. This practical guidance may help the internist to create adequate protocols for patients hospitalized ion internal medicine wards, where patients are often elderly subjects affected by poly-morbidities and renal insufficiency, and, thus, require particular attention to drug-drug interactions and peri-procedural protocols.
BACKGROUND Interest in nephrology careers among internal medicine residents in the United States is declining. Our objective was to assess the impact of the presence of a nephrology fellowship training program on perceptions and career interest in nephrology among internal medicine residents. A secondary objective was to identify commonly endorsed negative perceptions of nephrology among internal medicine residents.   METHODS This was a repeated cross-sectional survey of internal medicine residents before (Group 1) and 3 years after (Group 2) the establishment of nephrology fellowship programs at two institutions. The primary outcome was the percentage of residents indicating nephrology as a career interest in Group 1 vs. Group 2. Secondary outcomes included the frequency that residents agreed with negative statements about nephrology.   RESULTS 131 (80.9%) of 162 residents completed the survey. 19 (14.8%) residents indicated interest in a nephrology career, with 8 (6.3%) indicating nephrology as their first choice. There was no difference in career interest in nephrology between residents who were exposed to nephrology fellows during residency training (Group 2) and residents who were not (Group 1). The most commonly endorsed negative perceptions of nephrology were: nephrology fellows have long hours/burdensome call (36 [28.1%] of residents agreed or strongly agreed), practicing nephrologists must take frequent/difficult call (35 [27.6%] agreed or strongly agreed), and nephrology has few opportunities for procedures (35 [27.3%] agreed or strongly agreed). More residents in Group 2 agreed that nephrology is poorly paid (8.9% in Group 1 vs. 20.8% in Group 2, P = 0.04), whereas more residents in Group 1 agreed that nephrologists must take frequent/difficult call (40.0% in Group 1 vs. 18.1% in Group 2, P = 0.02).   CONCLUSIONS The initiation of a nephrology fellowship program was not associated with an increase in internal medicine residents' interest in nephrology careers. Residents endorsed several negative perceptions of nephrology, which may affect career choice.
OBJECTIVE To investigate the replication validity of biomedical association studies covered by newspapers.   METHODS We used a database of 4723 primary studies included in 306 meta-analysis articles. These studies associated a risk factor with a disease in three biomedical domains, psychiatry, neurology and four somatic diseases. They were classified into a lifestyle category (e.g. smoking) and a non-lifestyle category (e.g. genetic risk). Using the database Dow Jones Factiva, we investigated the newspaper coverage of each study. Their replication validity was assessed using a comparison with their corresponding meta-analyses.   RESULTS Among the 5029 articles of our database, 156 primary studies (of which 63 were lifestyle studies) and 5 meta-analysis articles were reported in 1561 newspaper articles. The percentage of covered studies and the number of newspaper articles per study strongly increased with the impact factor of the journal that published each scientific study. Newspapers almost equally covered initial (5/39 12.8%) and subsequent (58/600 9.7%) lifestyle studies. In contrast, initial non-lifestyle studies were covered more often (48/366 13.1%) than subsequent ones (45/3718 1.2%). Newspapers never covered initial studies reporting null findings and rarely reported subsequent null observations. Only 48.7% of the 156 studies reported by newspapers were confirmed by the corresponding meta-analyses. Initial non-lifestyle studies were less often confirmed (16/48) than subsequent ones (29/45) and than lifestyle studies (31/63). Psychiatric studies covered by newspapers were less often confirmed (10/38) than the neurological (26/41) or somatic (40/77) ones. This is correlated to an even larger coverage of initial studies in psychiatry. Whereas 234 newspaper articles covered the 35 initial studies that were later disconfirmed, only four press articles covered a subsequent null finding and mentioned the refutation of an initial claim.   CONCLUSION Journalists preferentially cover initial findings although they are often contradicted by meta-analyses and rarely inform the public when they are disconfirmed.
BACKGROUND Patients admitted to general internal medicine wards might receive a large number of drugs and be at risk for drug-related problems (DRPs) associated with increased morbidity and mortality. This study aimed to detect suboptimal drug use in internal medicine by a pharmacotherapy evaluation, to suggest treatment optimizations and to assess the acceptance and satisfaction of the prescribers.   METHODS This was a 6-month prospective study conducted in two internal medicine wards. Physician rounds were attended by a pharmacist and a pharmacologist. An assessment grid was used to detect the DRPs in electronic prescriptions 24h in advance. One of the following interventions was selected, depending on the relevance and complexity of the DRPs: no intervention, verbal advice of treatment optimization, or written consultation. The acceptance rate and satisfaction of prescribers were measured.   RESULTS In total, 145 patients were included, and 383 DRPs were identified (mean: 2.6 DRPs per patient). The most frequent DRPs were drug interactions (21%), untreated indications (18%), overdosages (16%) and drugs used without a valid indication (10%). The drugs or drug classes most frequently involved were tramadol, antidepressants, acenocoumarol, calcium-vitamin D, statins, aspirin, proton pump inhibitors and paracetamol. The following interventions were selected: no intervention (51%), verbal advice of treatment optimization (42%), and written consultation (7%). The acceptance rate of prescribers was 84% and their satisfaction was high.   CONCLUSION Pharmacotherapy expertise during medical rounds was useful and well accepted by prescribers. Because of the modest allocation of pharmacists and pharmacologists in Swiss hospitals, complementary strategies would be required.
BACKGROUND Most hospitals in Israel do not provide palliative care beds and only few general hospitals have palliative consultation services. To date there are no data on the rate of hospitalizations and the need for palliative care in general hospitals in Israel.   OBJECTIVE The objective was to characterize patients in need of palliative treatment during hospitalization in a general hospital in Israel.   METHODS A retrospective review was performed of a random sample of files of patients admitted to the Internal Medicine Department at the Soroka University Medical Center (SUMC) between May 2007 and April 2008. Patients were defined as in need of palliative care if they had a CARING score 13. The data were collected using a structured questionnaire that included sociodemographic data and data on comorbid conditions, main complaints, primary diagnosis, duration of hospitalization, and hospitalization outcome.   RESULTS We reviewed 2795 hospitalizations. Of these, 14.9% were defined as in need of palliative care. Fourteen percent of the patients died during hospitalization and 47% died over the six-month follow-up period. The most common primary diagnosis was malignancy (61%), followed by end-stage pulmonary disease (19%) and Alzheimer's and other causes of dementia (9%). In only 12 hospitalizations (3.5%) was palliative care arranged for patients at discharge.   CONCLUSIONS A high percentage of patients hospitalized in internal medicine divisions could benefit from palliative care. The data presented here could aid hospitals in the integration of palliative care services.
BACKGROUND Traditional productivity-based compensation models do not align well with newer population-based approaches to primary care. There are few published examples of academic general internal medicine compensation models that explicitly reward population health management, including care for patients between visits.   OBJECTIVE To describe the development and implementation of an academic general internal medicine compensation plan based upon actual work performed, compare satisfaction across primary care specialties, and evaluate work-related outcomes.   DESIGN Observational study.   PARTICIPANTS Forty-seven general internists who practice in affiliated academic and community clinics.   MAIN MEASURES Clinician satisfaction with compensation plan, workforce stability, panel data, and productivity.   KEY RESULTS The compensation plan change was associated with higher provider satisfaction. Sixty-five percent (31/47) of participants within general internal medicine reported being satisfied or very satisfied, as compared to 24 % (22/90 participants) for family medicine and 22 % (5/23 participants) for general pediatrics (p<0.05). In the first 4 years of the compensation plan change, no general internists left to join other local groups. General internal medicine increased its number of physicians by 19 %. The number of established general internists accepting new patients increased from 17 to 48 %, while the relative value units per full-time equivalent declined by 3 %.   CONCLUSIONS An equitable compensation model that aligns with population management goals and work performed outside the clinical visit can lead to improved satisfaction and retention of faculty in an academic general internal medicine division, along with improved access for the patient population.
John has been variously described as an inspiration, mentor, teacher, friend (fiend--a typo?), charming, warm, enthusiastic, visionary scientist, pioneer, innovator, egalitarian, and golfer. At other times he was called street fighter, competitor, and some unprintables. I believe he was all of these, and more. Join us in celebrating the life of Dr. John Laragh.
BACKGROUND Chronic non-communicable diseases represent the major drivers of disease burden, being responsible for the majority of health care cost and deaths. Almost half of premature deaths is due to behaviors amenable to change. Accordingly, addressing behavior might represent a strategic change in the health delivery system. Improving lifestyle requires a specific strategy embedding the active collaboration of individuals with a multilevel team-oriented medical practice. With the present study we sought to assess whether the implementation of cognitive-behavioral strategies, following the principles of lifestyle medicine in an outpatient clinic provides better results in weight reduction as compared to simpler strategies as presently executed in General Practitioners' offices.   METHODS This is an observational study on 173 subjects (age 53.1 짹 11.5), comparing three different groups of preventive practice: a personalized lifestyle medicine, combining cognitive behavioral strategies with patient tailored prescription of exercise and nutrition (Group A); a semi-structured approach with generic counseling (Group B); and an unstructured advice (Group C).   RESULTS At the end of the intervention period (17-20 months), group A showed an average weight loss of 5.4 짹 5.1 kg, which was significantly (p<0.001)more than observed in group B (2.8 짹 5.1 kg) and group C (1.2 짹 4.8 kg). Likewise BMI and waist were progressively more reduced from A to C.   CONCLUSIONS It is possible to implement preventive cognitive-behavioral lifestyle strategies in outpatient internal medicine clinics. This methodology appears more efficacious in inducing weight reduction after more than a year as compared to usual family medicine approaches.
CONTEXT Direct observation of clinical skills is a common approach in workplace-based assessment (WBA). Despite widespread use of the mini-clinical evaluation exercise (mini-CEX), faculty development efforts are typically required to improve assessment quality. Little consensus exists regarding the most effective training methods, and few studies explore faculty members' reactions to rater training.   OBJECTIVES This study was conducted to qualitatively explore the experiences of faculty staff with two rater training approaches - performance dimension training (PDT) and a혻modified approach to frame of reference training (FoRT) - to elucidate how such faculty development can be optimally designed.   METHODS In a qualitative study of a multifaceted intervention using complex intervention principles, 45 out-patient resident faculty preceptors from 26 US internal medicine residency programmes participated in a rater training faculty development programme. All participants were interviewed individually and in focus groups during and after the programme to elicit how the training influenced their approach to assessment. A constructivist grounded theory approach was used to analyse the data.   RESULTS Many participants perceived that rater training positively influenced their approach to direct observation and feedback, their ability to use entrustment as the standard for assessment, and their own clinical skills. However, barriers to implementation and change included: (i) a preference for holistic assessment over frameworks; (ii) challenges in defining competence; (iii) difficulty in changing one's approach to assessment, and (iv) concerns about institutional culture and buy-in.   CONCLUSIONS Rater training using PDT and a modified approach to FoRT can provide faculty staff with assessment skills that are congruent with principles of criterion-referenced assessment and entrustment, and foundational principles of competency-based education, while providing them with opportunities to reflect on their own clinical skills. However, multiple challenges to incorporating new forms of training exist. Ongoing efforts to improve WBA are needed to address institutional and cultural contexts, and systems of care delivery.
OBJECTIVES The subspecialty consultation represents a potentially powerful opportunity for resident learning, but barriers may limit the educational exchanges between fellows (subspecialty registrars) and residents (house officers). We conducted a focus group study of internal medicine (IM) residents and subspecialty fellows to determine barriers against and factors facilitating resident-fellow teaching interactions on the wards, and to identify opportunities for maximising teaching and learning.   METHODS We conducted four focus groups of IM residents (n혻=혻18) and IM subspecialty fellows (n혻=혻16) at two academic medical centres in the USA during February and March 2013. Participants represented trainees in all 3혻years of residency training and seven IM subspecialties. Four investigators analysed the transcripts using a structured qualitative framework approach, which was informed by literature on consultation and the theoretical framework of activity theory.   RESULTS We identified two domains of barriers and facilitating factors: personal and systems-based. Sub-themes in the personal domain included fellows' perceived resistance to consultations, residents' willingness to engage in teaching interactions, and perceptions and expectations. Sub-themes in the systems-based domain included the process of requesting the consult, the quality of the consult request, primary team structure, familiarity between residents and fellows, workload, work experience, culture of subspecialty divisions, and fellows' teaching skills. These barriers differentially affected the two stages of the consult identified in the focus groups (initial interaction and follow-up interaction).   CONCLUSIONS Residents and fellows want to engage in positive teaching interactions in the context of the clinical consult; however, multiple barriers influence both parties in the hospital environment. Many of these barriers are amenable to change. Interventions aimed at reducing barriers to teaching in the setting of consultation hold promise for improving teaching and learning on the wards.
OBJECTIVES Many believe that knowledge of anatomy is essential for performing clinical procedures; however, unlike their surgical counterparts, internal medicine (IM) programs rarely incorporate anatomy review into procedural teaching. This study tested the hypothesis that an educational intervention focused on teaching relevant surface and underlying anatomy would result in improved bone marrow procedure landmarking accuracy.   METHODS This was a preintervention-postintervention prospective study on landmarking accuracy of consenting IM residents attending their mandatory academic half-day. The intervention included an interactive video and visualization exercise; the video was developed specifically to teach the relevant underlying anatomy and includes views of live volunteers, cadavers, and skeletons.   RESULTS Thirty-one IM residents participated. At pretest, 48% (15/31) of residents landmarked accurately. Inaccuracy of pretest landmarking varied widely (n = 16, mean 20.06 mm; standard deviation 30.03 mm). At posttest, 74% (23/31) of residents accurately performed the procedure. McNemar test revealed a nonsignificant trend toward increased performance at posttest (P = 0.076; unadjusted odds for discordant pairs 3; 95% confidence interval 0.97-9.3). The Wilcoxon signed rank test demonstrated a significant difference between pre- and posttest accuracy in the 16 residents who were inaccurate at pretest (P = 0.004). No association was detected between participant baseline characteristics and pretest accuracy.   CONCLUSIONS This study demonstrates that residents who were initially inaccurate were able to significantly improve their landmarking skills by interacting with an educational tool emphasizing the relation between the surface and underlying anatomy. Our results support the use of basic anatomy in teaching bone marrow procedures. Results also support the proper use of video as an effective means for incorporating anatomy teaching around procedural skills.
OBJECTIVES Learning effective communication is essential for physicians. Effective communication has been shown to affect healthcare outcomes, including patient safety, adherence rates, patient satisfaction, and enhanced teamwork. The importance of these skills has become even more apparent in recent years, with value-based purchasing programs and federal measures of patient satisfaction in the form of Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems scores becoming an important part of measuring the performance of a healthcare facility.   METHODS We conducted a communication workshop for internal medicine residents at the University of Texas. Topics covered included the Acknowledge, Introduce, Duration, Explanation, Thank You framework; managing up; resolving conflicts; error disclosure; new medication and discharge counseling; intercultural communication; understanding Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems scores; and avoiding burnout. Because it would have been logistically difficult to block whole days for the workshop, the various topics were offered to residents during their regular noon conference hour for several consecutive days. After the workshop, the residents completed an anonymous questionnaire regarding their perception of the importance of various aspects of communication in patient care.   RESULTS The majority of the participating residents perceived the various communication skills explored during the workshop to be highly important in patient care. Concurrently, however, most residents believed that they had initially overestimated their knowledge about these various communication issues. Some demographic differences in the responses also were noted.   CONCLUSIONS Our findings demonstrate a needs gap and an area of potential improvement in medical education. We anticipate that with the growing understanding of the importance of communication skills in the healthcare setting, there will be an enhanced role for teaching these skills at all levels of medical education. More studies are needed to further elucidate the specific areas of communication in health care where additional training is necessary.
PURPOSE To determine U.S. internal medicine (IM) residents' knowledge of, attitudes toward, and self-reported practice of high-value care (HVC), or care that balances the benefits, harms, and costs of tests and treatments.   METHOD The authors conducted a cross-sectional survey of U.S. IM residents who took the Internal Medicine In-Training Examination in October 2012. They used multivariable mixed-effects models to examine the relationships between self-reported knowledge and practice of HVC and both exposure to HVC teaching and the care intensity of the training hospital (based on a composite age-sex-race-illness standardized measure of hospital days and inpatient physician visits by Medicare recipients).   RESULTS Of 21,617 residents who received the survey, 18,102 (83.7%) completed it. Self-reported HVC practices varied: 4,187 of 17,633 respondents (23.7%) agreed that they 'share estimated costs of tests and treatments with patients'; 15,549 of 17,626 (88.2%) agreed that they 'incorporate patients' values and concerns into clinical decisions.' Discussions about balancing the benefits, harms, and costs of treatments with faculty during patient care at least a few times a week were reported by 7,103 of 17,704 respondents (40.1%) and were associated with all self-reported HVC practices. The training hospital's care intensity was inversely associated with self-reported incorporation of costs and patient values into clinical decisions but not with other self-reported behaviors.   CONCLUSIONS U.S. IM residents reported varying HVC knowledge and practice. Faculty discussions of HVC during patient care correlated with such knowledge and practice and may represent an opportunity to improve residents' competency in providing value-based care.
The paper shows more than 40 years' experience with ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) used as a drug; during this period it has demonstrated its rather high clinical efficacy. Due to the range of its inherent pleiotropic (choleretic, cytoprotective, immunomodulatory, antiapoptotic, hypocholesterolemic, and litholytic) properties, UDCA has a broad spectrum of therapeutic activity. The paper considers the issues associated with the mechanism of action and with the clinical effects of this bile acid. It gives the results of the most important randomized controlled trials determining currently the evidence base for the efficiency and safety of using UDCA in the clinical picture of visceral diseases.
BACKGROUND Universities in Thailand are preparing for Thailand's integration into the ASEAN Economic Community (AEC) by increasing the number of tests in English language. English language is not the native language of Thailand Differences in English language proficiency may affect scores among test-takers, even when subject knowledge among test-takers is comparable and may falsely represent the knowledge level of the test-taker.   OBJECTIVE To study the impact of English language multiple choice test questions on test scores of medical students.   MATERIAL AND METHOD The final examination of fourth-year medical students completing internal medicine rotation contains 120 multiple choice questions (MCQ). The languages used on the test are Thai and English at a ratio of 3:1. Individual scores of tests taken in both languages were collected and the effect of English language on MCQ was analyzed Individual MCQ scores were then compared with individual student English language proficiency and student grade point average (GPA).   RESULTS Two hundred ninety five fourth-year medical students were enrolled. The mean percentage of MCQ scores in Thai and English were significantly different (65.0 짹 8.4 and 56.5 짹 12.4, respectively, p < 0.001). The correlation between MCQ scores in Thai and English was fair (Spearman's correlation coefficient = 0.41, p < 0.001). Of 295 students, only 73 (24.7%) students scored higher when being tested in English than in Thai language. Students were classified into six grade categories (A, B+, B, C+, C, and D+), which cumulatively measured total internal medicine rotation performance score plus final examination score. MCQ scores from Thai language examination were more closely correlated with total course grades than were the scores from English language examination (Spearman's correlation coefficient = 0.73 (p < 0.001) and 0.53 (p < 0.001), respectively). The gap difference between MCQ scores in both languages was higher in borderline students than in the excellent student group (11.2 짹 11.2 and 7.1 짹 8.2, respectively, p < 0.001). Overall, average student English proficiency score was very high, at 3.71 짹 0.35 from a total of 4.00. Mean student GPA was 3.40 짹 0.33 from a possible 4.00. English language MCQ examination scores were more highly associated with GPA than with English language proficiency.   CONCLUSION The use of English language multiple choice question test may decrease scores of the fourth-year internal medicine post-rotation final examination, especially those of borderline students.
INTRODUCTION Integrative medicine inpatient treatment has been shown to improve physical and mental health in patients with internal medicine conditions. The aim of this study was to investigate the effectiveness of a 2-week integrative medicine inpatient treatment in patients with chronic pain syndromes and the association of treatment success with patient-related process variables.   METHODS Inpatients with chronic pain syndromes participating in a 2-week integrative medicine inpatient program were included. Patients' pain intensity, pain disability, pain perception, quality of life, depression, and perceived stress were measured on admission, discharge, and 6 months after discharge. Likewise process variables including ability and will to change, emotional/rational disease acceptance, mindfulness, life and health satisfaction, and easiness of life were assessed.   RESULTS A total of 310 inpatients (91% female, mean age 50.7듏기12.4 year, 26.5% low back pain, and 22.9% fibromyalgia) were included. Using mixed linear models, significant improvements in pain intensity, pain disability, pain perception, quality of life, depression, and perceived stress were found (all P<0.05). Ability to change and implementation, disease acceptance, mindfulness, life and health satisfaction, and light heartedness/easiness likewise improved (all P<0.05). Improved outcomes were associated with increases in process variables, mainly ability to change and implementation, disease acceptance, life and health satisfaction, and light heartedness/easiness (R = 0.03-0.40).   CONCLUSIONS Results of this study suggest that a 2-week integrative medicine inpatient treatment can benefit patients with chronic pain conditions. Functional improvements are associated with improved ability to change and implementation, disease acceptance, and satisfaction.
BACKGROUND The medical ward round is a central but complex activity that is of relevance from the first day of work. However, difficulties for young doctors have been reported. Instruction of ward round competence in medical curricula is hampered by the lack of a standardized description of the procedure. This paper aims to identify and describe physicians' tasks and relevant competences for conducting a medical ward round on the first day of professional work.   METHODS A review of recent literature revealed known important aspects of medical ward rounds. These were used for the development of a semi-structured interview schedule. Medical ward round experts working at different hospitals were interviewed. The sample consisted of 14 ward physicians (M=8.82혻years of work experience) and 12 nurses (M=14.55혻years of work experience) working in different specializations of internal medicine. All interviews were audiotaped, fully transcribed, and analyzed using an inductive-deductive coding scheme.   RESULTS Nine fields of competences with 18 related sub-competences and 62 observable tasks were identified as relevant for conducting a medical ward round. Over 70혻% of the experts named communication, collaborative clinical reasoning and organization as essential competences. Deeper analysis further unveiled the importance of self-management, management of difficult situations, error management and teamwork.   CONCLUSION The study is the first to picture ward round competences and related tasks in detail and to define an EPA 'Conducting an internal medicine ward round' based on systematic interprofessional expert interviews. It thus provides a basis for integration of ward round competences in the medical curricula in an evidence based manner and gives a framework for the development of instructional intervention studies and comparative studies in other medical fields.
As a third-year medical student on an internal medical clerkship, I learned the most important lesson about how to care for patients. I saw my attending physician give attention first to the person he was treating, and then to the patient and her clinical picture. They are not the same, and our training in medical school does not always teach us this distinction. Months later I found myself with an opportunity to truly help another individual who had been clinically and emotionally overcome by his disease. My attending physician's lesson guided me in a very meaningful way: it allowed me to remind a man that he was more than the disease he was fighting. Many times, it may be something very little that we need to do or say but to our patients, these little things end up being the biggest of them all.
OBJECTIVE To make an inventory of training of Internal Medicine in France.   METHOD This study was conducted between May and September 2015 with coordinators (interviews of 45minutes) of local Internal Medicine training and fellows (online questionnaire).   RESULTS All coordinators (n=28) responded to the interviews. Local training of Internal Medicine exists in 86% of regions (3.1짹3.1hours/month) and an interregional training in all interregions (34.7짹13.9hours/year). When excluding 횓le-de-France, no correlation between the number of teachers and the amount of lessons was noted (P=0.61). Of the 550 fellows in Internal Medicine in 2014-2015, 223 (41%) responded to the online questionnaire. Mean level was 5.5짹2.7 semesters. The rate of satisfaction (1=very dissatisfied and 5=very satisfied) was 3.0짹1.0 and 3.8짹0.8 for regional and interregional teaching, respectively (P<0.0001). Regional teaching satisfaction was correlated with the perceived expanse of diseases covered into the program (P<0.0001). In addition, 89% of fellows wish to evaluate themselves online, 66% wish to have a practical evaluation at the bedside and 70% in simulation centers. Finally, 91% of fellows support the establishment of a national program for the training of Internal Medicine.   CONCLUSION This survey states for the first time an inventory of training of Internal Medicine dedicated to fellows in France. This report highlights that fellows wish to have a national program, be further evaluated and have access to more interactive approach of teaching.
BACKGROUND Continuity of care between hospitals and community pharmacies needs to be improved to ensure medication safety. This study aimed to evaluate whether a set of pharmaceutical interventions to prepare hospital discharge facilitates the transition of care.   METHODS This study took place in the internal medicine ward and in surrounding community pharmacies. The intervention group's patients underwent a set of pharmaceutical interventions during their hospital stay: medication reconciliation at admission, medication review, and discharge planning. The two groups were compared with regards to: number of community pharmacist interventions, time spent on discharge prescriptions, and number of treatment changes.   RESULTS Comparison between the groups showed a much lower (77% lower) number of community pharmacist interventions per discharge prescription in the intervention (n=54 patients) compared to the control group (n=64 patients): 6.9 versus 1.6 interventions, respectively (p<0.0001); less time working on discharge prescriptions; less interventions requiring a telephone call to a hospital physician. The number of medication changes at different steps was also significantly lower in the intervention group: 40% fewer (p<0.0001) changes between hospital admission and discharge, 66% fewer (p<0.0001) between hospital discharge and community pharmacy care, and 25% fewer (p=0.002) between community pharmacy care and care by a general practitioner.   CONCLUSION An intervention group underwent significantly fewer medication changes in subsequent steps in the transition of care after a set of interventions performed during their hospital stay. Community pharmacists had to perform fewer interventions on discharge prescriptions. Altogether, this improves continuity of care.
INTRODUCTION The medical decision capacity of emergency departments (ED) may rest within the department itself or depend on external consultation. The stepwise development of the ED at Zealand University Hospital, K첩ge, was used to analyse the influence of medical organisation in the ED on the hospital admission pattern.   METHODS Data were recorded for the month of September of 2009, 2012 and 2014. These periods corresponded to the establishment of the department in 2009 and the 2012-period before organisational change was initiated in 2013, with a substantial increase in the number of senior physicians directly in charge of clinical decisions and the establishment of a limited bedding capacity. In 2014, the changes had been fully implemented. We analysed the number of patients admitted and their length of stay (LOS) in the ED and in the Department of Internal Medicine (DoM). The 30-day readmission and mortality rates were used as quality indicators.   RESULTS A total of 1,106, 1,354 and 1,470 patients were admitted to the ED in 2009, 2012 and 2014, respectively. In 2009 and 2012, 42% of the patients were admitted to the DoM. In 2014, only 22% were admitted. The mean LOS for long-term admission at the DoM increased by 1.4 days from 2009 to 2014. Readmission and mortality rates did not change in three periods analysed.   CONCLUSION Independent medical decision capacity and bed resources in the ED effectively change hospital logistics and reduce the number of admissions without negatively affecting patient safety in terms of readmission or short-term mortality.   FUNDING none.   TRIAL REGISTRATION not relevant.
BACKGROUND Reinforcing the gatekeeping role of general practitioners (GPs) by embedding specialist knowledge into primary care is seen as a possibility for stimulating a more sustainable healthcare system and avoiding unnecessary referrals to outpatient care. An intervention called Primary Care Plus (PC+) was developed to achieve these goals. The objective of this study is to gain insight into: (1) the content and added value of PC+ consultations according to stakeholders, and (2) patient satisfaction with PC+ compared to outpatient care.   METHODS A feasibility study was conducted in the southern part of the Netherlands between April 2013 and January 2014. Data was collected using GP, medical specialist and patient questionnaires. Patient characteristics and medical specialty data were collected through the data system of a GP referral department.   RESULTS GPs indicated that they would have referred 85.4혻% of their PC+ patients to outpatient care in the hypothetical case that PC+ was not available. Medical specialists indicated that about one fifth of the patients needed follow-up in outpatient care and 75.9혻% of the consultations were of added value to patient care. The patient satisfaction results appear to be in favour of PC+.   CONCLUSION PC+ seems to be a feasible intervention to be implemented on a larger scale, because it has the potential to prevent unnecessary hospital referrals. PC+ will be evaluated on a larger scale regarding the effects on health outcomes, quality of care and costs (Triple Aim principle).
There is an increasing burden of chronic liver disease (CLD) in the United States but a significant shortage of hepatologists. Thus, it is necessary to develop new recruitment strategies to the field of hepatology as well as ensure that non-gastroenterology-trained physicians are able to capably assist in the care of CLD. We established a novel, nonelective, inpatient hepatology rotation that uses required modules in the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases Curriculum and Training-First Hepatitis B and C curriculums as well as in LiverLearning. A paper-based anonymous assessment was distributed to the inaugural 25 postgraduate years 2 and 3 internal medicine residents before and after the 2-week rotation over the course of 1 year. Both the prerotation and postrotation assessments included validated multiple-choice questions and Likert-type questions, which evaluated self-perceived knowledge and comfort with managing CLD. The mean comfort level (1 = not at all comfortable/strongly disagree, 5 = very comfortable/strongly agree) of managing several common liver diseases increased significantly after completion of the rotation (i.e., cirrhosis 2.8 versus 3.8, P < 0.001; hepatitis B 2.4 versus 3.4, P = 0.001; hepatitis C 2.6 versus 3.7, P = 0.002; nonalcoholic steatohepatitis 3.0 versus 4.0, P < 0.001; liver transplant care 2.1 versus 3.4, P < 0.001). There was also a significantly increased interest in hepatology as a career (2.6 versus 3.0, P = 0.03). Finally, the mean percentage of multiple-choice questions answered correctly on the pretest was 62% and posttest was 77% (P = 0.02).   CONCLUSION Our novel curriculum and nonelective hepatology rotation has effectively demonstrated improvement in internal medicine residents' comfort with and knowledge of CLD, and increased career interest in hepatology was also observed after completion of the curriculum, which suggests that more exposure to CLD could positively impact recruitment to the workforce; larger, multicenter studies are needed to validate these results. (Hepatology 2016;64:2210-2218).
Viktor von Weizs채cker (1886-1957) founded his concept of medical anthropology as a clinician educated in internal medicine and neurology. He tried to broaden natural scientific medicine psychosomatically focussing on the 'sick human'. The natural scientific approach would exclude subjectivity, and therefore he propagated the 'introduction of the subject' (Einf체hrung des Subjekts) into the life sciences. His own sensory physiological experiments and Sigmund Freud's psychoanalysis inspired him essentially since the 1920s. In his main work Der Gestaltkreis (gestalt circle) published in 1940 he stressed the 'entity of perceiving and moving' (Einheit von Wahrnehmen und Bewegen) in regard to relevant aspects of medicine. In 1932, Weizs채cker became a member of the Heidelberg Academy of Sciences, whose president he was from 1947 till 1949; 1942 he became a member of the Leopoldina. Primarily his merits as a neurologist were highly appreciated. His medical anthropology was not relevant for his election by the two academies. Nevertheless, there was a certain repudiation against the objectivistic and materialistic Weltanschauung within the scientific community. So, Paracelsus and Goethe were highly estimated as natural philosophical guides for own conceptions. This was especially evident for the circle around Wilhelm Troll and Karl Lothar Wolf in Halle, both members of the Leopoldina, who were fascinated by Goethe's concept of 'Gestalt'. Weizs채cker's lecture on 'Gestalt und Zeit' in Halle in 1942 fitted in the concept of those natural scientists.
PURPOSE Our hospital has a Housestaff Quality Council that fosters education and mentorship of medical residents for quality improvement methodologies. Medical residents on our council identified non-standardised storage rooms as a source of medical resident inefficiency and dissatisfaction. To improve value-add work, medical residents implemented and evaluated a quality improvement project of storage room supplies using the lean method.   METHODS Using 5S principle and lean methodology, we designed and implemented a standardised supply cart with physician specific supplies. Between April 2014 and April 2015, 40 random observations (20 residents and 20 nurses) both before and after the standardised supply cart implementation were made. The duration time to locate an item was measured in seconds. The paths taken to locate items were drawn as spaghetti diagrams. Nurses served as our control group given that their supplies were not moved in the implementation. Fifty residents were surveyed to assess their satisfaction.   RESULTS Implementation of the standardised supply cart reduced the time for residents to locate an item per visit from 50.8 to 30.2꿺 in one unit (p<0.05) and 127 to 28.3꿺 in the second unit (p<0.05). Mean time savings per day per resident were 5꿲in. The spaghetti diagrams indicated that finding supplies became more efficient after the intervention for residents. After the intervention, 92% of residents reported finding supplies more rapidly and 86% reported less frustration with finding supplies.   CONCLUSIONS Residents applied the 5S principles and lean methodology to identify and solve a problem that created inefficiency and dissatisfaction.
Lack of general medicine faculty expertise is a likely contributor to the slow adoption of point of care ultrasound (POCUS) by internal medicine (IM) residency training programs. We developed a 10-week faculty development program, during which 15 faculty members participated in 2 hours and 10 hours of online didactic and hands-on training, respectively. Pre-post comparisons showed that there were statistically significant improvements in faculty participants' ability to interpret images (p<0.001), perceived understanding of the capabilities and limitations of POCUS (p=0.003), comfort using POCUS to make clinical decisions (p=0.003), and perceptions regarding the extent to which POCUS can improve patient care (p=0.026). The next challenge for IM programs is to improve access to ultrasound machines and provide follow-up workshops to facilitate further development of skills and integration of POCUS into daily practice by general medicine faculty.
The beginnings of modern western medicine reach to about 1800 when under the liberating influence of French Revolution observation of diseases was started to follow more scientifically justified criteria. At that time speculative doctrines prevailed, e. g. those set up natural philosopher Schelling. In this context Internist Friedrich Theodor von Frerichs at Berlin Charit챕 University Hospital gained great merits because of his struggle for a scientifically-based experimental clinical medicine. This is demonstrated nicely in a recently found autograph document.
Importance Studies have found differences in practice patterns between male and female physicians, with female physicians more likely to adhere to clinical guidelines and evidence-based practice. However, whether patient outcomes differ between male and female physicians is largely unknown.   Objective To determine whether mortality and readmission rates differ between patients treated by male or female physicians.   Design, Setting, and Participants We analyzed a 20% random sample of Medicare fee-for-service beneficiaries 65 years or older hospitalized with a medical condition and treated by general internists from January 1, 2011, to December 31, 2014. We examined the association between physician sex and 30-day mortality and readmission rates, adjusted for patient and physician characteristics and hospital fixed effects (effectively comparing female and male physicians within the same hospital). As a sensitivity analysis, we examined only physicians focusing on hospital care (hospitalists), among whom patients are plausibly quasi-randomized to physicians based on the physician's specific work schedules. We also investigated whether differences in patient outcomes varied by specific condition or by underlying severity of illness.   Main Outcomes and Measures Patients' 30-day mortality and readmission rates.   Results A total of 1583028 hospitalizations were used for analyses of 30-day mortality (mean [SD] patient age, 80.2 [8.5] years; 621412 men and 961616 women) and 1540797 were used for analyses of readmission (mean [SD] patient age, 80.1 [8.5] years; 602115 men and 938682 women). Patients treated by female physicians had lower 30-day mortality (adjusted mortality, 11.07% vs 11.49%; adjusted risk difference, -0.43%; 95% CI, -0.57% to -0.28%; P<.001; number needed to treat to prevent 1 death, 233) and lower 30-day readmissions (adjusted readmissions, 15.02% vs 15.57%; adjusted risk difference, -0.55%; 95% CI, -0.71% to -0.39%; P<.001; number needed to treat to prevent 1 readmission, 182) than patients cared for by male physicians, after accounting for potential confounders. Our findings were unaffected when restricting analyses to patients treated by hospitalists. Differences persisted across 8 common medical conditions and across patients' severity of illness.   Conclusions and Relevance Elderly hospitalized patients treated by female internists have lower mortality and readmissions compared with those cared for by male internists. These findings suggest that the differences in practice patterns between male and female physicians, as suggested in previous studies, may have important clinical implications for patient outcomes.
INTRODUCTION Spontaneous reporting of adverse drug reactions (ADRs) is used for continuous risk-benefit evaluation of marketed pharmaceutical products and for signal detection. The Adverse Drug Event Manager (ADEM) is a service offered to clinicians employed at hospitals in the Capital Region of Denmark. The ADEM assists healthcare professionals in reporting suspected ADRs to the Danish Health Authority. The aim of this retrospective observational study was to quantify and describe ADRs reported via the ADEM in 2014.   METHODS All ADR reports handled by the ADEM in 2014 were recorded anonymously and analysed descriptively.   RESULTS A total of 484 ADRs were reported through the ADEM in 2014 (the median number of reports per month was 37; range: 17-78). The majority of the reports came from departments of internal medicine (61%), psychiatry (14%) and dermatology, ophthalmology or otorhinolaryngology (11%). The drugs most frequently reported were lisdexamphetamine (n = 40), rivaroxaban (n = 16) and warfarin (n = 15) (vaccines excluded). In 13 out of 484 reports, the ADR was associated with a fatal outcome.   CONCLUSION The findings of this study indicate that an ADEM promotes and facilitates spontaneous ADR reporting and helps raise awareness about ADRs, including how and why they should be reported. Hopefully, this will assist national and European spontaneous reporting systems in their work to increase patient safety nationally and abroad.   FUNDING none.   TRIAL REGISTRATION not relevant..
Bloodstream infections (BSI) carry a heavy burden of morbidity and mortality in modern internal medicine wards (IMW). These wards are often filled with elderly subjects with several risk factors for BSI, such as multiple comorbidities, polypharmacy, immunosuppression, and indwelling devices. Diagnosing BSI in such a setting might require a high degree of suspicion, since the clinical presentation could be affected by underlying conditions and concomitant medications, which might delay the administration of an appropriate antimicrobial therapy, an event strongly and unfavorably influencing survival. Furthermore, selecting the appropriate antimicrobial therapy to treat these patients is becoming an increasingly complex task in which all possible benefits and costs should be carefully analyzed from patient and public health perspectives. Only a specialized, continuous, and interdisciplinary approach could really improve the management of IMW patients in an era of increasing antimicrobial resistance and complexity of care.
Several studies have focused on the clinical and biological characteristics of meningitis in order to distinguish between bacterial and viral meningitis in the emergency setting. However, little is known about the etiologies and outcomes of aseptic meningitis in patients admitted to Internal Medicine.The aim of the study is to describe the etiologies, characteristics, and outcomes of aseptic meningitis with or without encephalitis in adults admitted to an Internal Medicine Department.A retrospective cohort study was conducted in the Internal Medicine Department of the Lariboisi챔re Hospital in Paris, France, from January 2009 to December 2011. Clinical and biological characteristics of aseptic meningitis were recorded. These included cerebrospinal fluid analysis, results of polymerase chain reaction testing, final diagnoses, and therapeutic management.The cohort included 180 patients fulfilling the criteria for aseptic meningitis with (n=56) or without (n=124) encephalitis. A definitive etiological diagnosis was established in 83 of the 180 cases. Of the cases with a definitive diagnosis, 73 were due to infectious agents, mainly enteroviruses, Herpes Simplex Virus 2, and Varicella Zoster Virus (43.4%, 16.8%, and 14.5% respectively). Inflammatory diseases were diagnosed in 7 cases. Among the 97 cases without definitive diagnoses, 26 (26.8%) remained free of treatment throughout their management whereas antiviral or antibiotic therapy was initiated in the emergency department for the remaining 71 patients. The treatment was discontinued in only 10 patients deemed to have viral meningitis upon admission to Internal Medicine.The prevalence of inflammatory diseases among patients admitted to internal medicine for aseptic meningitis is not rare (4% of overall aseptic meningitis). The PCR upon admission to the emergency department is obviously of major importance for the prompt optimization of therapy and management. However, meningitis due to viral agents or inflammatory diseases could also be distinguished according to several clinical and biological characteristics highlighted in this retrospective study. As recommendations are now available concerning the prescriptions of antiviral agents in viral meningitis, better therapeutic management is expected in the future.
BACKGROUND Real-time feedback about patients' perceptions of the quality of the care they are receiving could provide physicians the opportunity to address concerns and improve these perceptions as they occur, but physicians rarely if ever receive feedback from patients in real time.   OBJECTIVE To evaluate if real-time patient feedback to physicians improves patient experience.   DESIGN Prospective, randomized, quality-improvement initiative.   SETTING University-affiliated, public safety net hospital.   PARTICIPANTS Patients and hospitalist physicians on general internal medicine units.   INTERVENTION Real-time daily patient feedback to providers along with provider coaching and revisits of patients not reporting optimal satisfaction with their care.   MEASUREMENTS Patient experience scores on 3 provider-specific questions from daily surveys on all patients and Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (HCAHPS) scores and percentiles on randomly selected patients.   RESULTS Changes in HCAHPS percentile ranks were substantial (communication from doctors: 60th percentile versus 39th, courtesy and respect of doctors: 88th percentile versus 23rd, doctors listening carefully to patients: 95th percentile versus 57th, and overall hospital rating: 87th percentile versus 6th (P = 0.02 for overall differences in percentiles), but we found no statistically significant difference in the top box proportions for the daily surveys or the HCAHPS survey. The median [interquartile range] top box score for the overall hospital rating question on the HCAHPS survey was higher in the intervention group than in the control group (10 [9, 10] vs 9 [8, 10], P = 0.04).   CONCLUSIONS Real-time feedback, followed by coaching and patient revisits, seem to improve patient experience.
In 2015 the fourth update of the directive for the determination of definitely irreversible loss of complete function of the cerebrum, cerebellum and brainstem was passed and came into force. This was preceded by several hearings of all professional societies and associations involved as well as a 2-year advisory process of an interdisciplinary working party. The directive is intended to determine irreversible brain death in the field of intensive care medicine and is independent of individual decisions about organ donation. Not only an update based on scientific data but also a clarification of the several procedures and a clear definition of the medical qualifications required were worked out. Furthermore, the technical procedures computed tomography (CT) angiography and duplex sonography were adopted for the diagnosis of cerebral circulatory arrest. The new directive including comprehensive explanatory notes was approved by the German Federal Ministry of Health and published by the German Medical Council (Bundes채rztekammer).
Principally, in the fourth update of the rules for the procedure to finally determine the irreversible cessation of function of the cerebrum, the cerebellum and the brainstem, the importance of an electroencephalogram (EEG), somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP) and brainstem auditory evoked potentials (BAEP) are confirmed. This paper presents the reliability and validity of the electrophysiological diagnosis, discusses the amendments in the fourth version of the guidelines and introduces the practical application, problems and sources of error.An EEG is the best established supplementary diagnostic method for determining the irreversibility of clinical brain death syndrome. It should be noted that residual brain activity can often persist for many hours after the onset of brain death syndrome, particularly in patients with primary brainstem lesions. The derivation and analysis of an EEG requires a high level of expertise to be able to safely distinguish artefacts from primary brain activity. The registration of EEGs to demonstrate the irreversibility of clinical brain death syndrome is extremely time consuming.The BAEPs can only be used to confirm the irreversibility of brain death syndrome in serial examinations or in the rare cases of a sustained wave I or sustained waves I and II. Very often, an investigation cannot be reliably performed because of existing sound conduction disturbances or failure of all potentials even before the onset of clinical brain death syndrome. This explains why BAEPs are only used in exceptional cases.The SEPs of the median nerve can be very reliably derived, are technically simple and with few sources of error. A serial investigation is not required and the time needed for examination is short. For these reasons SEPs are given preference over EEGs and BAEPs for establishing the irreversibility of clinical brain death syndrome.
Medicine in the last decades of the twentieth century was ripe for a data sweep that would bring systematic analysis to treatment strategies that seemingly had stood the test of time but were actually unvalidated. Coalescing under the banner of evidence-based medicine, this process has helped to standardize care, minimize error, and promote patient safety. But with this advancement, something of the art of medicine has been lost.
BACKGROUND Our aims were to assess the effectiveness of a diabetes (DM) management protocol to increase scheduled insulin therapy and to improve glycemic inpatient control.   PATIENTS AND METHODS We designed an analytical retrospective cohort study comparing 2 groups of medical services hospitalized patients with a primary of secondary discharge diagnosis of DM, before (group PRE) and after (group POS) the delivery of a DM management protocol. We analyzed the quality of attention by process indicators (cumulative probability of receive scheduled insulin therapy, evaluated with Kaplan-Meier analysis) and result indicators (adjusted glucose differences (group POS - group PRE), evaluated with multivariate regression models).   RESULTS A number of patients (355) were included (228 group PRE and 127 group POS). The median time to scheduled insulin regimen beginning was 1 (CI 95%: 0-2.5) day in group POS and 4 (CI 95%: 2-6) days in group PRE (p=0.056). First 48 hours mean glucose in patients without scheduled insulin therapy was lower in group POS than in group PRE (163.9 versus 186.7 mg/dl; p=0.025). The first 24 hours mean glucose was significantly lower in patients of group POS, with a difference between both groups of -24.8 mg/dl (CI 95%: -40.5-(-9); p=0.002). Stratified analysis showed statistically significant mean in-hospital glucose difference only in the nothing by mouth situation (-29.8 mg/dl; CI 95%: -58.9-(-0.6); p=0.045).   CONCLUSION The delivery of an institutional protocol can improve hospitalized DM patients management quality.
BACKGROUND Both research and clinical medicine requires similar attributes of efficiency, diligence and effective teamwork. Furthermore, residents must succeed at scholarship and patient care to be competitive for fellowship training. It is unknown whether research productivity among residents is related to broad measures of clinical achievement. Our goal was to examine associations between the quantity of internal medicine residents' publications and validated measures of their knowledge, skills and multi-source evaluations of performance.   METHODS This was a longitudinal study of 308 residents graduating from Mayo Clinic from 2006 to 2012. We identified peer-reviewed articles in Ovid MEDLINE between July of each resident's match year and the end of their graduation. Outcomes included American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) certification examination scores, mini clinical examination (mini-CEX) scores, and validated assessments of clinical performance by resident-peers, faculty and non-physicians. Performance assessments were averaged to form an overall score ranging from 1 to 5. Associations between quantity of resident publications--and ABIM, mini-CEX and performance assessment scores--were determined using multivariate linear regression.   RESULTS The residents published 642 papers, of which 443 (69.0%) were research papers, 198 (30.8%) were case reports, and 380 (59.2%) were first-authored. On adjusted analysis, multi-source clinical performance evaluations were significantly associated (beta; 99% CI; p-value) with the numbers of research articles (0.012; 0.001-0.024; 0.007), and overall publications (0.012; 0.002-0.022; 0.002).   CONCLUSIONS To our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate that scholarly productivity based on journal publication is associated with clinical performance during residency training. Our findings suggest that residents who invest substantial efforts in research are not compromised in their abilities to learn medicine and care for patients.
THEORY The move to competency-based education has heightened the importance of direct observation of clinical skills and effective feedback. The Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE) is widely used for assessment and affords an opportunity for both direct observation and feedback to occur simultaneously. For feedback to be effective, it should include direct observation, assessment of performance, provision of feedback, reflection, decision making, and use of feedback for learning and change.   HYPOTHESES If one of the goals of feedback is to engage students to think about their performance (i.e., reflection), it would seem imperative that they can recall this feedback both immediately and into the future. This study explores recall of feedback in the context of an OSCE. Specifically, the purpose of this study was to (a) determine the amount and the accuracy of feedback that trainees remember immediately after an OSCE, as well as 1 month later, and (b) assess whether prompting immediate recall improved delayed recall.   METHODS Internal medicine residents received 2 minutes of verbal feedback from physician examiners in the context of an OSCE. The feedback was audio-recorded and later transcribed. Residents were randomly allocated to the immediate recall group (immediate-RG; n = 10) or the delayed recall group (delayed-RG; n = 8). The immediate-RG completed a questionnaire prompting recall of feedback received immediately after the OSCE, and then again 1 month later. The delayed-RG completed a questionnaire only 1 month after the OSCE. The total number and accuracy of feedback points provided by examiners were compared to the points recalled by residents. Results comparing recall at 1 month between the immediate-RG and the delayed-RG were also studied.   RESULTS Physician examiners provided considerably more feedback points (M = 16.3) than the residents recalled immediately after the OSCE (M = 2.61, p < .001). There was no significant difference between the number of feedback points recalled upon completion of the OSCE (2.61) compared to 1 month later (M = 1.96, p = .06, Cohen's d = .70). Prompting immediate recall did not improve later recall. The mean accuracy score for feedback recall immediately after the OSCE was 4.3/9 or 'somewhat representative,' and at 1 month the score dropped to 3.5/9 or 'not representative' (ns).   CONCLUSION Residents recall very few feedback points immediately after the OSCE and 1 month later. The feedback points that are recalled are neither very accurate nor representative of the feedback actually provided.
Taking advantage of the French annual dermatologic conference 'Journ챕es Dermatologiques de Paris' that took place in December 2015, this article highlights the latest clinical advances, which occurred in autoimmune, inflammatory and systemic diseases during the past year. Evaluations of new classifications, new prognostic factors, and significant results of clinical trials in such diseases are underlined. A special attention is given to the classifications of systemic lupus erythematosus and systemic sclerosis as well as the use of rituximab in idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura or in the maintenance treatment of patients with anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies-associated vasculitis.
BACKGROUND There is little literature regarding how a gastroenterology trainee affects a patient's interpretation of care during outpatient clinic visits. Improving patient satisfaction is desirable and benefits may include enhanced patient compliance as well as providing trainees with areas for improvement.   OBJECTIVES To evaluate patient satisfaction in an outpatient gastroenterology clinic when seen by a trainee and attending physician versus an attending physician alone. The secondary objective was to evaluate physician characteristics that play a role in creating a positive clinical experience.   METHODS A randomized prospective survey study was conducted over an 11-month period (July 2012 to June 2013) at St Boniface Hospital (Winnipeg, Manitoba). Two gastroenterology fellows (postgraduate year 4 and 5) and nine internal medicine residents (postgraduate year 1 to 3) comprised the 'trainee' role, while three academic clinicians comprised the 'attending' role. Patients included individuals seen for an initial consultation and were >18 years of age.   RESULTS A total of 211 patients comprised the final study group, with 118 in the attending group and 93 in the trainee group. In univariate analysis, patients more often had a very good experience when seen by an attending physician alone versus a trainee and attending physician (73% versus 56%; P=0.016); however, on multivariate analysis, there was no significant difference in patient satisfaction (OR 0.89; P=0.931). Physician factors found to be associated with high patient satisfaction on multivariate analysis included: addressing all patient concerns (OR 27.56; P=0.021); giving the patient a preliminary diagnosis (OR 78.02; P=0.006); and feeling the physician was thorough (OR 72.53; P=0.029).   CONCLUSIONS The present study did not reveal a difference in patient satisfaction if a patient sees an attending physician alone or with a trainee. Moreover, to improve patient satisfaction in a gastroenterology clinic, physicians should address all patient concerns, provide a preliminary diagnosis and appear to be thorough in their assessment. Further work to increase patient awareness on the role of residents in teaching hospitals is warranted to further promote careers in gastroenterology.
OBJECTIVE To assess health care providers' knowledge regarding pregnancy outcome as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and evaluate the variables associated with their responses to questions about routine surveillance for cardiovascular disease.   METHODS A voluntary, anonymous survey of internal medicine and obstetric and gynecologic health care providers at an academic institution. Responses to a case-based and direct inquiry questionnaire were evaluated.   RESULTS The overall response rate was 65% (173/265). When assessing cardiovascular risk, gynecologists compared with internists significantly more often requested a pregnancy history (44/49 [90%] compared with 56/75 [75%], P=.039) and more often attached importance to a history of preeclampsia (35/48 [73%] compared with 41/75 [55%], P=.028). When a history of preeclampsia was obtained, internists more often obtained a fasting glucose test (25/52 [48%] compared with 9/43 [20.9%], P=.009). A minority of health care providers recognized the importance of fetal growth restriction. Both health care provider groups demonstrated similar knowledge of general cardiovascular risk factors, screening tools, and interventions. Higher general cardiovascular knowledge was significantly associated with identification of pregnancy complications as cardiovascular risk factors (P=.001).   CONCLUSION When assessing cardiovascular risk, internists were less likely than gynecologists to include a pregnancy history. However, once identified as at risk for cardiovascular disease, gynecologists were less likely than internists to obtain appropriate testing. Education concerning the link between certain pregnancy complications and future cardiovascular disease is needed. Areas of opportunity for education in both medical specialties are identified.
BACKGROUND Despite rising health care costs and calls for the incorporation of high-value care (HVC) into medical training, there are few described curricula to address this need.   METHODS We designed a single-group pre/post comparison to evaluate the impact of a 45-minute HVC morning report in one academic internal medicine programme on the trainees' self-reported knowledge of costs for common diagnostic tests, impact on future ordering practices and the educational value of the intervention. Medical trainees completed a diagnostic evaluation for a hypothetical case within the constraints of a budget during the morning report. Trainees completed a pre/post intervention survey regarding knowledge and attitudes towards HVC, and an evaluation of the intervention. The Wilcoxon signed rank test was used to determine differences between the pre/post intervention survey responses. There are few described curricula to address the need for the incorporation of high-value care into medical training   RESULTS Fifty-eight trainees participated in the educational activity: 57 completed the survey and 54 completed the evaluation. Our results indicate a significant increase following the morning report intervention in: the trainees' self-reported understanding of the cost for diagnostic tests (p < 0.001); the likelihood the cost of diagnostic tests would affect their future ordering practices (p < 0.001); and the likelihood that the cost of diagnostic tests would affect their timing of a diagnostic evaluation (p  0.001). The results also indicated a significant decrease in the likelihood that trainees would order extra diagnostic evaluations following the intervention (p = 0.015), and 96 per cent felt that the session was educationally valuable.   DISCUSSION A morning report incorporating cost of care can significantly increase trainees' perceived understanding of cost and affect self-reported ordering practices in an educationally valuable intervention.
BACKGROUND Allergic conditions have high prevalence in the general population. Misconceptions regarding the diagnosis and management of allergic disease among physicians can lead to suboptimal clinical care.   OBJECTIVE To determine the extent of allergy-related knowledge deficits among physicians.   METHODS Pediatric and internal medicine resident and attending physicians from 2 separate academic medical centers were asked to answer an anonymous electronic survey. Survey questions addressed 7 different allergy content areas.   RESULTS Four hundred eight physicians completed surveys (23.9% response rate). Respondents had few correct answers (mean 짹 SD 1.91 짹 1.43). Pediatric respondents had a larger number of correct answers compared with medicine-trained physicians (P < .001). No individual answered every survey question correctly, and 50 respondents (12.3%) had no correct answer. Three hundred seventy-eight respondents (92.6%) were unable to provide correct answers for at least 50% of survey questions. Level of residency training and prior rotation through an allergy and immunology elective correlated with a larger number of correct responses (P < .01). Only 1 survey question had an overall correct response rate higher than 50% (n = 261, 64%). Correct response rate was lower than 30% for 7 of the 9 possible questions.   CONCLUSION There are significant knowledge deficits in many areas of allergy-related content among pediatric and internal medicine physicians and across all levels of training and specialty. Given the prevalence of allergic conditions, the potential implications of a negative impact on clinical care are staggering.
OBJECTIVES To identify and characterize adverse events (AE) in an Internal Medicine Department of a district hospital using an extension of the Global Trigger Tool (GTT), analyzing the diagnostic validity of the tool.   METHODS An observational, analytical, descriptive and retrospective study was conducted on 2013 clinical charts from an Internal Medicine Department in order to detect EA through the identification of 'triggers' (an event often related to an AE). The 'triggers' and AE were located by systematic review of clinical documentation. The AE were characterized after they were identified.   RESULTS A total of 149 AE were detected in 291 clinical charts during 2013, of which 75.3% were detected directly by the tool, while the rest were not associated with a trigger. The percentage of charts that had at least one AE was 35.4%. The most frequent AE found was pressure ulcer (12%), followed by delirium, constipation, nosocomial respiratory infection and altered level of consciousness by drugs. Almost half (47.6%) of the AE were related to drug use, and 32.2% of all AE were considered preventable. The tool demonstrated a sensitivity of 91.3% (95%CI: 88.9-93.2) and a specificity of 32.5% (95%CI: 29.9-35.1). It had a positive predictive value of 42.5% (95%CI: 40.1-45.1) and a negative predictive value of 87.1% (95%CI: 83.8-89.9).   CONCLUSIONS The tool used in this study is valid, useful and reproducible for the detection of AE. It also serves to determine rates of injury and to observe their progression over time. A high frequency of both AE and preventable events were observed in this study.
PURPOSE Pharmacotherapy for diabetes in real-world clinical settings is very complex and is posing a challenge for residents in training. The purpose of this study was to explore the views of residents in Canada regarding educational priorities for pharmacotherapy in diabetes management.   METHODS A questionnaire was developed to explore different domains of pharmacotherapy in diabetes management, including different clinic>al settings, combination pharmacotherapy with different classes of medications and patients' characteristics, including comorbidities and cardiovascular risk factors. The questionnaire and the letter of invitation was sent to residents through their program directors. The results were gathered through an online survey system. Due to the study design, response rate could not be determined. For data analysis, SPSS Software was used for statistical analysis. Chi-square testing was utilized for comparisons of proportions.   RESULTS Thirty-four residency programs in Canada were contacted and 165 residents completed the study. A significant number of the residents (59%) viewed combination pharmacotherapy for diabetes management as the most important educational priority (p < 0.001). Regarding insulin therapy, combination of insulin with another class of agents was recognized as the most important educational priority by 51% of residents (p < 0.001). Among all classes of medication for blood glucose management the education on the use of newer class of medication such as GLP1 agonists, DPP4 inhibitors and SGLT2 inhibitors was recognized as a priority by 77% of residents (p < 0.001).   CONCLUSION This study provides new data and insights into residents' views on diabetes pharmacotherapy. Educational curriculums may incorporate these views from residents on the educational priorities that were identified in this study.
Although direct observation and corrective feedback are established methods of increasing select aspects of residents' musculoskeletal (MSK) clinical skills, the evaluation and management of patients with MSK complaints remains an underemphasized part of internal medicine training. This paper reports on the development of an innovative peer-assisted learning (PAL) model to teach five MSK areas (back, knee, shoulder, neck, or hip pain). Based on data from 42 participating interns and 44 senior residents from an urban US academic medical center, results from an objective structured clinical exam (OSCE) demonstrate gains in both knowledge and self-reported confidence in MSK skills. Moreover, subsequent focus group results reveal a strong preference for the PAL model. In conclusion, an educational module that utilizes the OSCE format holds much promise for teaching MSK skills to both intern and senior residents.
BACKGROUND Targeting patients with prolonged hospitalizations may represent an effective strategy for reducing average hospital length of stay (LOS).   OBJECTIVE We sought to characterize predictors of prolonged hospitalization among internal medicine patients in an effort to guide future improvement efforts.   DESIGN We conducted a retrospective cohort study using administrative data of internal medicine patients from all hospitals of the Spanish Public Health Service between January 1st, 2005 and December 31st, 2013. Multivariable logistic regression was performed to assess the association between sociodemographic and clinical variables and prolonged LOS, defined as >30days.   KEY RESULTS Of 5,275,139 discharges, 166,470 (3.2%) had a prolonged LOS. Prolonged hospitalizations accounted for 17.4% of total inpatient days and contributed 0.5days to an average LOS of 9.8days during the study period. Prolonged hospitalizations were associated with younger age (odds ratio [OR]: 0.97 per 10-year increase in age, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.96-0.98) and male gender (OR 0.88 IC95% 0.87-0.89). Compared to patients without prolonged LOS, prolonged LOS patients were more likely to require a palliative care consult (OR: 2.48, 95% CI: 2.39-2.58), surgery (OR: 6.9 95% CI: 6.8-7.0); and be discharged to a post-acute-care facility (OR: 2.91, 95% CI: 2.86-2.95).   CONCLUSIONS Prolonged hospitalizations in a small proportion of patients were an important contributor to overall LOS and particularly affected complex hospital stays who were not discharged home.
OBJECTIVE Intrauterine devices (IUDs) are one of the most effective forms of reversible contraception and can reduce unintended pregnancy rates. We explored practice characteristics associated with IUD services across a network of primary care practices in New York City during 2010-2013.   STUDY DESIGN Data were extracted from electronic health records (EHRs) for 253 primary care practices participating in an EHR quality improvement program in New York City. We used diagnostic and procedure codes to count IUD insertions and removals among females aged 10-49 years during 2010-2013. Logistic regression models predicted the likelihood of IUD insertion, removal or no activity for 2013, based on practice characteristics. We stratified trends in IUD services over time by practice type and specialty.   RESULTS From 2010 to 2013, the proportion of practices that inserted IUDs increased slightly from 4.7% to 6.3% (p=0.17), and the proportion removing IUDs increased from 8.3% to 12.3% (p<0.01). More than 60% of obstetricians/gynecologists and midwives performed insertions or removals each year; fewer than 10% of internal medicine and pediatric providers did so. Community health centers had higher odds of performing removals than independent practices (adjusted odds ratio=10.24, 95% confidence interval: 3.37-31.17). Practices seeing >66% female patients had higher odds of performing both insertions and removals.   CONCLUSIONS From 2010 to 2013, IUD services increased but remained low among primary care practices in this network. Provider training and system readiness programs should include independent primary care practices, which rarely provide IUDs, to ensure that women can receive IUDs or IUD service referrals in the primary care setting.   IMPLICATIONS Much of primary care in the United States takes place in independent practices with one or two providers. Our study of a major urban area found that these types of practices are much less likely to offer IUD services than community health centers. Ensuring that small practices know where to refer women for IUD insertion and removal services is warranted to ensure women's access to IUDs.
BACKGROUND Digital necrosis is a frequent event in vascular pathology. They are multiple etiologies and are the translation of a general or locoregional pathology. The aim of our study was to clarify the various causes of digital necrosis in an internal medicine department.   METHODS We conducted a retrospective study of 23 cases of digital necrosis collected in the internal medicine department of the hospital Habib Thameur over a period from January 1998 to April 2011 .   RESULTS There were 16 women and 7 men with mean age of 46 years. The cardiovascular risk factors were observed in 39.13% cases. Digital necroses were interested fingers in 73.91% and toes in 30.43% of the cases. The causes were dominated by the connective diseases. The treatment was symptomatic in all cases and etiologic in only two cases.   CONCLUSION In internal medicine, the causes are dominated by connectivites. The prognosis is especially functional. It remains unfavorable in spite of the improvement of the therapeutic and etiologic care.
Improved collaboration between physicians and chaplains has the potential to improve patient experiences. To better understand the benefits and challenges of learning together, the authors conducted several focus groups with participants in an interprofessional curriculum that partnered internal medicine residents with chaplain interns in the clinical setting. The authors derived four major qualitative themes from the transcripts: (1) physician learners became aware of effective communication skills for addressing spirituality. (2) Chaplain interns enhanced the delivery of team-based patient-centered care. (3) Chaplains were seen as a source of emotional support to the medical team. (4) The partnership has three keys to success: adequate introductions for team members, clear expectations for participants, and opportunities for feedback. The themes presented indicate several benefits of pairing physicians and chaplains in the setting of direct patient care and suggest that this is an effective approach to incorporating spirituality in medical training.
PURPOSE Role modeling by staff physicians is a significant component of the clinical teaching of students and residents. However, the importance of resident role modeling has only recently emerged, and residents' understanding of themselves as role models has yet to be explored. This study sought to understand residents' perceptions of themselves as role models, describe how residents learn about role modeling, and identify ways to improve resident role modeling.   METHOD Fourteen semistructured interviews were conducted with residents in internal medicine, general surgery, and pediatrics at the McGill University Faculty of Medicine between April and September 2013. Interviews were audio-recorded and subsequently transcribed for analysis; iterative analysis followed principles of qualitative description.   RESULTS Four primary themes were identified through data analysis: residents perceived role modeling as the demonstration of 'good' behaviors in the clinical context; residents believed that learning from their role modeling 'just happens' as long as learners are 'watching'; residents did not equate role modeling with being a role model; and residents learned about role modeling from watching their positive and negative role models.   CONCLUSIONS While residents were aware that students and junior colleagues learned from their modeling, they were often not aware of role modeling as it was occurring; they also believed that learning from role modeling 'just happens' and did not always see themselves as role models. Helping residents view effective role modeling as a deliberate process rather than something that 'just happens' may improve clinical teaching across the continuum of medical education.
RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES There has been attention on the job market recently and on radiology's supply/demand calculus. Supply is influenced by the number of trained radiologists, while demand is driven by demographics and technological innovation. We analyze the supply of radiologists historically and compare to other labor markets-medical and non-medical, domestic and foreign.   MATERIALS AND METHODS We review National Resident Matching Program data in radiology and several other specialties from 1991 to 2015. We also review surveys, physician recruitment data, and peer-reviewed commentaries on medical specialty job markets. Trends are compared across specialties. The regulation of American medical training is compared to that in the United Kingdom and to a nonmedical labor market, unionized theatrical stage employees.   RESULTS Radiology residency positions have increased since 1998 despite a downturn in the job market. This expansion coincides with a decreasing percentage of positions filled by domestic graduates. A similar trend has been seen in pathology, a notoriously oversupplied specialty. Conversely, other specialties have maintained their proportion of domestic graduates by way of limited supply or implicit demand.   CONCLUSIONS The radiology job market is currently oversupplied, primarily a result of increasing residency positions despite indicators of decreasing demand. The percentage of residency positions filled by domestic graduates has decreased during the same period, suggesting that medical student interest is responsive to the market. Other specialties, particularly pathology, demonstrate the dangers of chronic oversupply. We advocate a reduction of radiology residency positions such that supply closely approximates demand without exceeding it. Additional measures may be taken, if necessary, to restore market equilibrium in the event of a mild undersupply.
INTRODUCTION Inappropriate use of abbreviations and acronyms in healthcare has become an international patient safety issue. The aim of this study was to assess the knowledge of medical abbreviations and acronyms among residents of the department of medicine at a tertiary-care hospital.   METHODS Internal medicine residents (IMRs), subspecialty residents (SRs) and students were asked to complete a self-administered questionnaire which comprised standard abbreviations used in medicine and its various subspecialties. Scores obtained by the residents were classified into three categories: >70% correct answers; 50-69% correct answers; <50% correct answers.   RESULTS A total of 77 IMRs, SRs and medical students participated. Overall, good responses were achieved by 53 (68.8%), 16 (20.8%) attained satisfactory responses, and eight (10.4%) had unsatisfactory scores. The majority of SRs achieved good responses (19/22 (86%)), followed by IMRs (30/40 (75%)) and students (4/15 (26.7%)). Evaluation of their knowledge taken from the list of 'do not use' abbreviations showed that 89.6% reported using 'Q.D.' instead of 'once a day', and 93% used 'IU' instead of the entire phrase 'international unit'. The top five 'not to use' abbreviations were ZnSO4, 쨉g, MgSO4, IU and SC, with the frequency 100%, 96%, 94.8%, 93% and 90%, respectively.   CONCLUSIONS This study showed that there is a knowledge gap among trainees in medicine regarding the meaning and usage of common medical abbreviations. We therefore recommend proper education of trainees in medicine to ensure they understand the meaning of abbreviations and are aware of the list of 'do not use' abbreviations.
Artifacts in ultrasonographic diagnostics are a result of the physical properties of the ultrasound waves and are caused by interaction of the ultrasound waves with biological structures and tissues of the body and with foreign materials. On the one hand, they may be diagnostically helpful. On the other hand, they may be distracting and may lead to misdiagnosis. Profound knowledge of the causes, avoidance, and interpretation of artifacts is a necessary precondition for correct clinical appraisal of ultrasound images. Part 1 of this review commented on the physics of artifacts and described the most important B-mode artifacts. Part 2 focuses on the clinically relevant artifacts in Doppler and color-coded duplex sonography. Problems and pitfalls of interpretation arising from artifacts, as well as the diagnostic use of Doppler and colour-coded duplex sonography, are discussed.
PURPOSE Radiation dose information is increasingly requested by nonradiology providers, but there are no standard methods for communicating dose. The aim of this study was to compare physicians' perceptions of the amount of radiation associated with similar dose quantities expressed using different dose terms to evaluate the impact of word choice on physicians' understanding of radiation dose.   METHODS Internal medicine and pediatric residents were surveyed online for 42 days. After obtaining demographics and training levels, respondents were asked to rank five different radiation dose quantities, each corresponding to one of the five ACR relative radiation levels (RRLs) expressed using different dose terms. Respondents ranked the choices from least to greatest (ie, from 1 to 5) or indicated if all five were equal. For the final question, the same dose quantity was expressed five different ways.   RESULTS Fifty-one medicine and 45 pediatric residents responded (a 44% response rate). Mean differences in rankings were as follows: for chest x-rays, 0.109 (95% confidence interval [CI],혻-0.018 to 0.236); for cross-country flights, 0.462 (95% CI, 0.338 to 0.585); for natural background radiation,혻-0.672 (95% CI,혻-0.793 to혻-0.551); for cancer risk,혻-0.294 (95% CI,혻-0.409 to혻-0.178); and for ACR RRL, 0.239 (95% CI, 0.148 to 0.329). Statistically significant differences were found in the distributions of rankings (P < .001) and percentage of correct rankings across each radiation dose term (P < .001), with the ACR RRL having the highest percentage of correct rankings (61.2%).   CONCLUSIONS Adult and pediatric physicians consistently over- or underestimated radiation dose quantities using different terms to express radiation dose. These results suggest that radiation dose information should be communicated using standard terminology such as the ACR RRL scale to foster consistency and improve the accuracy of physicians' radiation risk perceptions.
Despite growing awareness of the benefits of interprofessional education and interprofessional collaboration (IPC), understanding how teams successfully transition to IPC is limited. Student exposure to interprofessional teams fosters the learners' integration and application of classroom-based interprofessional theory to practice. A further benefit might be reinforcing the value of IPC to members of the mentoring team and strengthening their IPC. The research question for this study was: Does training in IPC and clinical team facilitation and mentorship of pre-licensure learners during interprofessional clinical placements improve the mentoring teams' collaborative working relationships compared to control teams? Statistical analyses included repeated time analysis multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA). Teams on four clinical units participated in the project. Impact on intervention teams pre- versus post-interprofessional clinical placement was modest with only the Cost of Team score of the Attitudes Towards Healthcare Team Scale improving relative to controls (p혻=혻0.059) although reflective evaluations by intervention team members noted many perceived benefits of interprofessional clinical placements. The significantly higher group scores for control teams (geriatric and palliative care) on three of four subscales of the Assessment of Interprofessional Team Collaboration Scale underscore our need to better understand the unique features within geriatric and palliative care settings that foster superior IPC and to recognise that the transition to IPC likely requires a more diverse intervention than the interprofessional clinical placement experience implemented in this study. More recently, it is encouraging to see the development of innovative tools that use an evidence-based, multi-dimensional approach to support teams in their transition to IPC.
Objective Although several studies have been conducted worldwide on factors that might improve residents' knowledge, the relationship between the hospital volume and the internal medicine residents' knowledge has not been fully understood. We conducted a cross-sectional study to compare the relationships of the hospital volume and hospital resources with the residents' knowledge assessed by the In-training Examination. Methods We conducted a retrospective survey and a clinical knowledge evaluation of postgraduate year 1 and 2 (PGY-1 and -2) resident physicians in Japan by using the General Medicine In-training Examination (GM-ITE) in 2014. We compared the ITE score and the hospital volume. Results A total of 2,015 participants (70.6% men; age, 27.3짹2.9 years old) from 208 hospitals were retrospectively analyzed. Generalized estimating equations were used, and the results revealed that an increasing number of hospitalizations, decreasing staff number, decreasing age and PGY-2 were significantly associated with higher GM-ITE scores. Conclusion The hospital volume, such as the number of hospitalizations, is thus considered to have a positive impact on the GM-ITE scores.
OBJECTIVE The inappropriate use of antibiotics in our environment increases the risk of multi-resistant bacteria, therefore it is necessary to present studies to meet and promote the proper use of antimicrobial.   METHODS Retrospective observational study in which patients who are receiving ertapenem during the period of stady (5 쩍 months), were included. The adequacy of the indication to the conditions of use agreed in the Hospital was evaluated and the evolution of the treatment was monitored until the end, determining the degree of therapeutic de-escalation.   RESULTS 84 ertapenem prescriptions were included. The vast mayority of the prescriptions were carried out by Internal Medicine (41.7%) and the main indication was urinary tract infection (47.2%). Microbiological cultures were requested in the 75% of the patients before the first dose of ertapenem. The prescription was adapted in 69 (82.14%) of ertapenem patients to the criteria approved by the Hospital. Regarding the evolution of antibiotic therapy, treatment with ertapenem continued until resolution of the infection in 58.33% of patients. In 15 of 23 (66.21%) patients with the possibility of therapeutic de-escalation it was performed after 2-3 days of empirical treatment.   CONCLUSIONS The vast majority of treatments ertapenem fit the criteria of prescription our Hospital. The high percentage of patients with microbiological results available, allowed in many patients the appropriate adjustment of the treatment in the first 72 hours.
BACKGROUND Constructive feedback is an essential element of the educational process, helping trainees reach their maximum potential and increasing their skill level. Video-based feedback has been described as highly effective in various educational contexts. The present study aimed to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of video-based, on-ward supervision for final year students in a clinical context with real patients.   METHODS Nine final year medical students (three male, six female; aged 25.1됀기0.7 years) and eight patients (five male, three female; aged 59.3됀기16.8 years) participated in the pilot study. Final year students performed routine medical procedures at bedside on internal medicine wards at the University of Heidelberg Medical Hospital. Students were filmed and were under supervision. After performing the procedures, an oral feedback loop was established including student, patient and supervisor feedback on communicative and procedural aspects of skills performed. Finally, students watched their video, focusing on specific teachable moments mentioned by the supervisor. Written evaluations and semi-structured interviews were conducted that focused on the benefits of video-based, on-ward supervision. Interviews were analysed qualitatively, using open coding to establish recurring themes and overarching categories to describe patients' and students' impressions. Descriptive, quantitative analysis was used for questionnaire data.   RESULTS Supervised, self-chosen skills included history taking (n=6), physical examination (n=1), IV cannulation (n=1), and ECG recording (n=1). The video-based, on-ward supervision was well accepted by patients and students. Supervisor feedback was rated as highly beneficial, with the video material providing an additional opportunity to focus on crucial aspects and to further validate the supervisor's feedback. Students felt the video material would be less beneficial without the supervisor's feedback. The setting was rated as realistic, with filming not influencing behaviour.   CONCLUSION Video-based, on-ward supervision may be a powerful tool for improving clinical medical education. However, it should be regarded as an additional tool in combination with supervisors' oral feedback. Acceptance was high in both students and patients. Further research should address possibilities of efficiently combining and routinely establishing these forms of feedback in medical education.
Because of reporting high side effects related to biosynthetic drugs, recent attention has been paid to the use of herbs instead of chemical drugs to balance serum lipids. The present systematic review aimed to evaluate the safety of herbal medicines and also to assess drug interaction in herbal therapy in treating hyperlipidemia. The international research databases including MEDLINE; Google scholar, Web of Science SciVerse Scopus (SCOPUS); EBSCO Academic Search; Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL); and a Chinese database (China Network Knowledge Infrastructure [CNKI]) were searched from their respective inceptions up to September 2014 with the search terms of 'hyperlipidemia', 'herbal medicine', 'medicine traditional', 'extract plant', 'Traditional Medicine' and 'Chinese Herbal Medicine' without narrowing or limiting search elements. A total of 85 randomized clinical trials (RCTs) studies were finally assessed on human subjects. A notable number of herbal drugs that are commonly used as an anti-hyperlipidemia agent may be interacted with a variety of biosynthetic drugs. In this regard, the most common reported herb-drug reactions were related to anticoagulants, antidepressants, anti-epileptic, anti-inflammatory, and/or even antihypertension and anti-lipidemic drugs. Also, a considerable number of anti-lipidemic drugs of plants origin may be accompanied with metabolic disturbances and serious complications within pregnancy and breast feeding. The main fundamental principles for administration of these drugs include physicians' complete awareness of the effects and interactions of these drugs, educating people not taking these drugs arbitrarily, and closely monitoring the verification and distribution of the drugs in the society.
OBJECTIVES To evaluate the relationship between the pass rate of the American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) certifying exam and the characteristics of residency programs.   METHODS The study used a retrospective, cross-sectional design with publicly available data from the ABIM and the Fellowship and Residency Electronic Interactive Database. All categorical residency programs with reported pass rates were included. Using univariate and multivariate, linear regression analyses, I analyzed how 69 factors (e.g., location, general information, number of faculty and trainees, work schedule, educational environment) are related to the pass rate.   RESULTS Of 371 programs, only one region had a significantly different pass rate from the other regions; however, as no other characteristics were reported in this region, I excluded program location from further analysis. In the multivariate analysis, pass rate was significantly associated with four program characteristics: ratio of full-time equivalent paid faculty to positions, percentage of osteopathic doctors, formal mentoring program, and on-site child care (OCC). Numerous factors were not associated at all, including minimum exam scores, salary, vacation days, and average hours per week.   CONCLUSIONS As shown through the ratio of full-time equivalent paid faculty to positions and whether there was a formal mentoring program, a highly supervised training experience was strongly associated with the pass rate. In contrast, percentage of osteopathic doctors was inversely related to the pass rate. Programs with OCC significantly outperformed programs without OCC. This study suggested that enhancing supervision of training programs and offering parental support may help attract and produce competitive residents.
INTRODUCTION Prognosis estimation offered by physicians for patients inflicted by sepsis on their admission to Internal Medicine (IM) departments is considered a challenge. Early prognosis estimation is critical and determines the intensity of treatment offered. The accuracy of prognosis estimation made by physicians has previously been investigated mainly among intensive care physicians and oncologists.   OBJECTIVE To ascertain the accuracy of prognosis prediction made by internists for septic patients on admission to IM departments.   METHODS Physicians were asked to estimate the prognosis of every patient identified to have sepsis on admission. Their intuitive assessment of prognosis was incorporated into the patients' electronic medical record. Survival follow-up was recorded until death or for at least 2 years. Later we compared survival with physicians' prognosis estimations.   RESULTS Prognosis estimation was recorded for 1,073 consecutive septic patients admitted throughout the years 2008-2009 to IM departments. The mean age of patients was 74.7됀기16.1 years. A total of 42.4% were suspected to have pneumonia, and 65.4% died during a mean follow-up time of 661.1됀기612.3 days. Almost half of the patients classified to have good prognosis survived compared to 14.9% and 4.9% of those with intermediate and bad prognosis estimation, respectively (P<0.001).   CONCLUSION Internists can discriminate well between septic patients with good, intermediate, and bad prognosis.
PURPOSE More physicians need to acquire the skills of primary palliative care. Medical students' clerkship experiences with death, dying, and palliative care (DDPC), however, may create barriers to learning such skills during residency. Whether professional development is differentially affected by DDPC is unknown. This knowledge gap potentially hinders the development of educational strategies to optimize students' preparedness for primary palliative care.   METHOD Third-year students submitted professionalism narratives (N = 4062) during their internal medicine clerkship between 2004 and 2011. We identified DDPC-related narratives and then randomly selected control narratives. Narratives were compared by valence (positive or negative) and professionalism-related themes.   RESULTS AND CONCLUSION Less than 10% of the narratives were related to DDPC, but the majority was positive. There was a significant overlap in professionalism themes between DDPC and control narratives. The results suggest student preparedness for primary palliative care may be improved by addressing the common professionalism challenges of clinical clerkships.
PURPOSE Determination of death is an essential part of donation after circulatory death (DCD). We studied the current practices of determination of death after circulatory arrest by intensive care physicians in the Netherlands, the availability of guidelines, and the occurrence of the phenomenon of autoresuscitation.   METHODS The Determination of Cardiac Death Practices in Intensive Care Survey was sent to all intensive care physicians.   RESULTS Fifty-five percent of 568 Dutch intensive care physicians responded. Most respondents learned death determination from clinical practice. The most commonly used tests for death determination were flat arterial line tracing, flat electrocardiogram (standard 3-lead electrocardiogram), and fixed and dilated pupils. Rarely used tests were absence pulse by echo Doppler, absent blood pressure by noninvasive monitoring, and unresponsiveness to painful stimulus. No diagnostic test or procedure was uniformly performed, but 80% of respondents perceived a need for standardization of death determination. Autoresuscitation was witnessed by 37%, after withdrawal of treatment or after unsuccessful resuscitation.   CONCLUSIONS Extensive variability in the practice of determining death after circulatory arrest exists, and a need for guidelines and standardization, especially if organ donation follows death, is reported. Autoresuscitation is reported; this observation requires attention in further prospective observational studies.
OBJECTIVES To determine the effects of a guideline-derived resident educational program on inpatient glycemic control and length of hospital stay (LOS).   METHODS We compared the following variables before and after resident education: percentage of patients on basal-plus-bolus regimens, mean fingerstick glucose (FSG), LOS, and rates of hypoglycemia (FSG<70 mg/dL) and severe hypoglycemia (FSG<40 mg/dL). A two-tailed t test was used for all continuous data and P<0.05 was considered statistically significant.   RESULTS After education, more patients (23% vs 8%; P=0.024) were placed on basal-plus-bolus regimens. We observed a decrease in mean FSG (158.7 mg/dL vs 165.1 mg/dL; P=0.028) and LOS (5.03 days vs 6.98 days; P=0.042). Rates of hypoglycemia (4.6% vs 1.5%; P<0.001) and severe hypoglycemia (0.71% vs 0.24%; P=0.089) increased.   CONCLUSIONS Our resident educational program significantly increased the number of patients receiving guideline-based inpatient insulin therapy and was associated with a reduction in mean FSG and LOS. Rates of hypoglycemia showed a statistically significant increase, whereas rates of severe hypoglycemia did not. Larger multicenter studies with adjustment for potential confounders are needed to further assess the impact of educational interventions on inpatient glycemic control.
OBJECTIVES Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education guidelines require internal medicine residents to develop skills in the interpretation of medical literature and to understand the principles of research. A necessary component is the ability to understand the statistical methods used and their results, material that is not an in-depth focus of most medical school curricula and residency programs. Given the breadth and depth of the current medical literature and an increasing emphasis on complex, sophisticated statistical analyses, the statistical foundation and education necessary for residents are uncertain.   METHODS We reviewed the statistical methods and terms used in 49 articles discussed at the journal club in the Department of Internal Medicine residency program at Texas Tech University between January 1, 2013 and June 30, 2013. We collected information on the study type and on the statistical methods used for summarizing and comparing samples, determining the relations between independent variables and dependent variables, and estimating models. We then identified the typical statistics education level at which each term or method is learned.   RESULTS A total of 14 articles came from the Journal of the American Medical Association Internal Medicine, 11 from the New England Journal of Medicine, 6 from the Annals of Internal Medicine, 5 from the Journal of the American Medical Association, and 13 from other journals. Twenty reported randomized controlled trials. Summary statistics included mean values (39 articles), category counts (38), and medians (28). Group comparisons were based on t tests (14 articles), 2 tests (21), and nonparametric ranking tests (10). The relations between dependent and independent variables were analyzed with simple regression (6 articles), multivariate regression (11), and logistic regression (8). Nine studies reported odds ratios with 95% confidence intervals, and seven analyzed test performance using sensitivity and specificity calculations. These papers used 128 statistical terms and context-defined concepts, including some from data analysis (56), epidemiology-biostatistics (31), modeling (24), data collection (12), and meta-analysis (5). Ten different software programs were used in these articles. Based on usual undergraduate and graduate statistics curricula, 64.3% of the concepts and methods used in these papers required at least a master's degree-level statistics education.   CONCLUSIONS The interpretation of the current medical literature can require an extensive background in statistical methods at an education level exceeding the material and resources provided to most medical students and residents. Given the complexity and time pressure of medical education, these deficiencies will be hard to correct, but this project can serve as a basis for developing a curriculum in study design and statistical methods needed by physicians-in-training.
Within the European Union, medical disciplines also have been organized. At the European level, the Union Europ챕enne des M챕decins Sp챕cialistes (UEMS) currently represents the interests of 42 medical disciplines and offers support to doctors to work in any European country. For this purpose, guidelines were adopted already in 2005, which, among others, regulate automatic recognition of professional qualifications. This does not apply to intensive care medicine, since in most European countri in the guidelines as a 'special competence'. For this purpose, a multidisciplinary joint committee of the UEMS formulated the so-called 'European Training Requirements' (ETR), the aim of which was to raise the professional skills of European doctors working in the field of intensive care to a uniformly high level. The ETR are currently in the process of being voted upon. As things stand, additional training in intensive care medicine in Germany as currently practised would meet the conditions and requirements of the ETR.
BACKGROUND Healthcare acquired infections (HAI) are an important cause of morbidity and mortality in hospitals worldwide. Aim of the study was to analyze nine years surveillance activity, carried out by point prevalence surveys from 2007 to 2015, in a 450-bed teaching hospital in Rome.   METHODS Point prevalence surveys were carried out every year in the medical and surgical wards following the same methodology. In accordance with definitions used by the Centers for Disease Control, all infections occurred more than 48 hours after hospital admission were considered HAI, and included in the study. Baseline characteristics, clinical features, isolated pathogens (only for the period 2011-2015) and antimicrobial resistance were recorded.   RESULTS During the nine years point prevalence surveys a total 2,840 patients were enrolled. Overall 136 (4.79%) patients developed 180 (6.34%) HAI. The most frequent HAI were respiratory tract infections (RTI), which accounted for 35.0% of all HAI, followed by surgical site infections (SSI) 22.2%, urinary tract infections (UTI) 19.4%, bloodstream infections (BSI) 17.2%, and others 6.1%. HAI related to major invasive risk procedures were also evaluated. SSI/patients undergoing surgery 3.99%, UTI/ patients with urinary catheter 4.17% and BSI/patients with CVC 9.42%. Over one-half of all patients surveyed (1,532, 53.9%) were receiving antibiotics at the time of our study. Among them 892 (58.2%) for treatment, 641 (41.8%) for prophylaxis. In the latter group, 109 (17.0%) underwent extra-short term, 89 (13.9%) short term and 443 (69.1%) a long term prophylaxis. During the period 2011-2015 out of 110 HAI episodes 71 (64.5%) were confirmed microbiologically. In total 106 pathogens were isolates, Gram-negative bacteria (63.2%) were isolated more frequently than Gram-positive bacteria (28.3%).   CONCLUSIONS The overall HAI prevalence in our hospital was consistent with those reported in other studies in Italy. The study underlined the role of Gram-negative bacteria in HAI and the need for antimicrobial stewardship. It also provided useful baseline data for rational priorities in allocation of resources, for further infection control activities.
The authors described the features of a hypothetical academic Department of Medicine in 2030 that would be most effective in improving the public health. Future departments of medicine will be compelled to respond to a projected shortage of physicians through augmented training strategies. The clinical programs will be more decentralized and responsive to patient preferences while demonstrating greater value. Departments will create adaptable, accountable structures in which clinicians working in interdisciplinary teams continuously improve processes and outcomes of care, and clinician and patient satisfaction. The restructuring of health care will afford exciting opportunities to align clinical and scholarly activities. The growing ability to link biological and clinical phenotypic information will lead to more effective and efficient clinical care. In view of the funding constraints and the remarkable opportunities for high-impact research, departmental research programs will become increasingly disciplined. Successful research programs will require durable investments in faculty career development, enabling infrastructure, interdisciplinary research teams, and diverse funding sources. The educational programs will demonstrate proficiency of trainees in the 6 current core competencies, as well as in additional areas critical to health care transformation. To improve organizational effectiveness, departments will create more nimble organizational structures led by individuals with diverse backgrounds. Chairs of departments of medicine will be expected to continuously expand their capacity to meet the evolving needs of their departments and institutions. Members of departments of medicine will be continuously fortified by the privilege and obligations of our profession while embracing the risks necessary to meet the extraordinary opportunities in혻2030.
UNLABELLED microRNAs (abbreviated miRNAs or miRs) represents one of the group of so called small non-coding RNAs which participate in the negative post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. According to the base complementarity they target molecules of messenger RNAs (mRNAs) which results either in translational blockade or in degradation of target mRNA. One miRNA usually targets more mRNA and one mRNA is usually targeted by more than one miRNA - complicated and interconnected regulatory networks are thus created and their disruption leads to the abnormalities in development or results in the development of diseases. Within the past two decades, novel mechanisms were described that enable us to modulate miRNA levels (either causing upregulation or downregulation) - miRNAs can thus be considered as a novel potential group of therapeutic targets. First clinical trials using the blockade of liver specific miR-122 showed very promising results in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus infection. Results of preclinical and animal studies are also promising providing future rationale for the development of new therapeutics for various internal diseases including heart failure, bronchial asthma or inflammatory bowel diseases. Moreover, miRNAs are not only affecting the pathophysiology of internal diseases, but they can also reflect their presence - there is a group of miRNAs called extracellular, or circulating miRNAs, i.e. miRNAs that are present in extracellular space including all known body fluids such as plasma, serum, urine, saliva or sweat. Circulating miRNAs are stable; their levels are constant among the individuals of one species, methods determining their levels are reproducible and last but not least - levels of extracellular miRNAs differ between healthy and diseased individuals. They are released into the circulation either after the cell necrosis or by active transport. Except of being potential novel biomarkers, these miRNAs represent a novel mean of intercellular communication. Their levels thus reflect not only the organ damage but also the changes of the homeostasis during various illnesses. The aim of the current study is to provide the first insight into the miRNA world to clinicians, especially to internal medicine specialists. Using simple examples from clinical praxis or clinical pathophysiology, we are trying to present diagnostic and therapeutic potential that is hidden within these tiny interesting molecules.   KEY WORDS circulating microRNA - diagnostics - internal diseases - microRNA - therapy.
BACKGROUND Type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2) is a disease of epidemic proportions. In the adult Spanish population, prevalence of DM2 is nearly 14%, which makes its monitoring and treatment imperative. Liraglutide has achieved relevance due to its efficacy and safety in DM treatment. The aim of this study is to gather expert opinion on diabetes to assess the current role of liraglutide in DM2.   MATERIALS/METHODS The survey was performed by 57 internal medicine specialists using the Delphi method. The questionnaire had 56 items regarding liraglutide in DM treatment.   RESULTS Consensus was reached in 71.4% of items. Panelists stated agreement regarding liraglutide suitability in the treatment of patients with DM2, high cardiovascular risk, and with pathologies related to obesity, highlighting its role in weight loss, low risk of hypoglycemia, and improvement of vascular risks. Moreover, consensus was not reached regarding the suitability of liraglutide in patients with special situations, mainly due to minimal experience caused by the small number of patients.   CONCLUSIONS Due to its safety and hypoglycemic efficacy, liraglutide is an excellent choice for DM treatment in combination with other drugs. Its effects on the reduction of weight and other cardiovascular risk factors, make it an optimal treatment, especially in overweight or obese patients.
OBJECTIVES Applicants to our internal medicine (IM) residency program consistently have shared concerns about whether the interview date influences their ability to match via the National Residency Matching Program. We performed a retrospective study to assess whether interview timing was associated with successful matching at our IM program.   METHODS We identified all of the applicants who interviewed for a first-year position with our IM residency program from 2010 to 2014. Each year's interview dates were totaled and divided equally into three categories: early, middle, or late. Baseline demographics, United States Medical Licensing Examination scores, and type of medical school (American or international) were compared among the interview date groups and between those who did and did not match at our program.   RESULTS Of 914 interviewees, 311 interviewed early (October/November), 299 interviewed in the middle (December), and 304 interviewed late (January). The proportion to match at our program was similar in each interview group (12.5%, 18.4%, 15.1%, respectively; P = 0.133). Logistic regression analysis showed that the middle interview group had increased odds to match compared with the early group (odds ratio 1.590; P = 0.044). The late-versus-early group showed no difference (P = 0.362). No significant differences were found with type of medical school or United States Medical Licensing Examination scores. Of all of the interviewees participating in the match, nearly all matched into a program somewhere, with no significant difference based on interview timing.   CONCLUSIONS When considering all of the interviewees, interview date showed no major influence on matching. Only the middle interview time period showed a slight increased chance of matching to our IM program, but the significance was marginal.
Lyme disease case misclassification, a top public health concern, may be attributed to the current disconnect between clinical diagnosis and surveillance. This study examines Lyme disease distribution in West Virginia (WV) and determines clinicians' knowledge of both disease and surveillance. Lyme disease surveillance data for 2013 were obtained from the WV Bureau for Public Health. A validated survey, distributed to clinicians at an academic medical center, assessed clinicians' knowledge of disease diagnosis and surveillance. There were 297 adult Lyme disease cases of which 83 were confirmed. Clinician survey responses resulted in a correct response rate of 70% for Lyme disease knowledge questions. Fewer than half of all clinicians were aware of the surveillance criteria for confirming Lyme disease cases. Neither medical specialty nor previous treatment of patients with Lyme disease were significantly associated with clinicians' knowledge of the disease. Clinicians in WV are familiar with symptoms and clinical management of Lyme disease. However, they are less knowledgeable about diagnosis and public health surveillance comprising reporting and confirming cases of the disease. Clinicians and public health authorities should collaborate more closely to promote education and awareness as a key step to successfully reducing the burden of Lymne disease.
INTRODUCTION A majority of invasive Candida infections occur in medical wards; however, evidence for management in this setting is scarce and based primarily on the intensive care or surgical setting. On behalf of the Italian Society for Anti-Infective Therapy (SITA) and the Italian Federation of Associations of Hospital Doctors on Internal Medicine (FADOI), the MEDICAL group produced practical management algorithms for patients in internal medicine wards.   METHODS The MEDICAL group panel, composed of 30 members from internal medicine, infectious disease, clinical pharmacology, clinical microbiology and clinical epidemiology, provided expert opinion through the RAND/UCLA method.   RESULTS Seven clinical scenarios were constructed based on clinical severity and probability of invasive candidiasis. For each scenario, the appropriateness of 63 different diagnostic, imaging, management, or therapeutic procedures was determined in two Delphi rounds. The necessity for performing each appropriate procedure, was then determined in a third Delphi round. Results were summarized in algorithms.   DISCUSSION The proposed algorithms provide internal medicine physicians and managers with an easy to interpret tool that is exhaustive, clear and suitable for adaption to individual local settings. Attention was paid to individual patient management and resource allocation.
At the end of 2013, the Minister of Health started legislative changes directly and indirectly affecting primary health care (PHC). The reforms were widely criticised among certain groups of medical professionals, including family medicine physicians. The latter mainly criticised the formal inclusion of specialists in internal diseases and paediatrics into PHC within the statutory health care system, which in practice meant that these two groups of specialists were no longer required to specialize in family medicine from 2017 in order to enter into contracts with the public payer and would be able to set up solo PHC practices-something over which family medicine physicians used to have a monopoly. They argued that paediatricians and internists did not have the necessary professional competencies to work as PHC physicians and thus assure provision of a comprehensive and coordinated PHC. The government's stance was that the proposed measure was necessary to assure the future provision of PHC, given the shortage of specialists in family medicine. Certain groups of medical professionals were also supportive of the proposed change. The key argument in favour was that it could improve access to PHC, especially for children. However, while this was not the subject of the critique or even a policy debate, the proposal ignored the increasing health care needs of older patients-the key recipients of PHC services. The policy was passed in the Parliament in March-April 2014 without a dialogue with the key stakeholders, which is typical of health care (and other) reforms in Poland. The strong opposition against the reform from the family medicine specialists, represented by two strong organisations, may jeopardise the policy implementation in the future.
BACKGROUND Pediatric residents must become proficient with performing a lumbar puncture (LP) during training. Residents have traditionally acquired LP skills by observing the procedure performed by a more senior resident or staff physician and then attempting the procedure themselves. This process can result in variable procedural skill acquisition and trainee discomfort. This study assessed changes in resident procedural skill and self-reported anxiety when residents were provided with an opportunity to participate in an interactive training session and practice LPs using a simulator.   METHODS All pediatric residents at our institution were invited to participate. Residents were asked to report their post-graduate year (PGY), prior LP attempts and self-reported anxiety scores as measured by the standardized State-Trait Anxiety Inventory - State Anxiety Scale (STAI-S) prior to completing an observed pre-test using an infant-sized LP simulator. Staff physicians observed and scored each resident's procedural skill using a previously published 21-point scoring system. Residents then participated in an interactive lecture on LP technique and were given an opportunity for staff-supervised, small group simulator-based practice within 1혻month of the pre-test. Repeat post-test was performed within 4혻months.   RESULTS Of the pediatric residents who completed the pre-test (N=20), 16/20 (80혻%) completed both the training session and post-test. Their PGY training level was: PGY1 (38혻%), PGY2 (25혻%), PGY3 (25혻%) or PGY4 (12혻%). Procedural skill improved in 15/16 residents (paired t-test; p<0.001), driven by a significant improvement in skill for residents in PGY1 (P=0.015) and PGY2 (p=0.003) but not PGY3 or PGY4. Overall anxiety scores were higher at baseline than at post testing (mean됀기뎂D; 44.8됀기12.1 vs 39.7됀기9.4; NS) however only PGY1 residents experienced a significant reduction in anxiety (paired t-test, p=0.04).   CONCLUSION LP simulation training combined with an interactive training session may be a useful tool for improving procedural competence and decreasing anxiety levels, particularly among those at an earlier stage of residency training.
BACKGROUND Despite professional societies' emphasis on women's health in internal medicine (IM) resident curricula, national implementation has varied. This study describes IM program directors' perceptions of women's health topics that residents should master and the current state of women's health education in IM residency programs.   MATERIALS AND METHODS We recruited 408 program directors of IM residency programs to complete an electronic cross-sectional survey. Participants were surveyed about expected resident mastery of twelve women's health topics in the context of their program's current characteristics, core curricula, and training opportunities.   RESULTS One hundred twelve IM program directors completed the survey (response rate 27%). The percentage of program directors who perceived that residents should master each of the twelve women's health topics ranged from 48% to 98%, with the most program directors expecting mastery of osteoporosis (N=110, 98%), sexually transmitted infection (N=110, 98%), and gender-specific cancer (N=109, 97%). These topics, however, were not currently included in the core curricula of 6%-12% of programs. Programs offered varied opportunities in women's health, including dedicated women's health electives (N=76, 68%), concentrations or tracks (N=8, 7%), and continuity clinics (N=15, 13%). Most program directors were interested (N=90, 80%) in expanding women's health opportunities in their programs.   CONCLUSION While women's health topics were perceived by program directors as a priority for IM resident mastery, certain priority topics and training opportunities were limited. Additional studies are needed to explore barriers to expansion of resident education in women's health and potential solutions.
Skin and soft tissue infections (SSTIs) are a common cause of hospital admission among elderly patients, and traditionally have been divided into complicated and uncomplicated SSTIs. In 2010, the FDA provided a new classification of these infections, and a new category of disease, named acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections (ABSSSIs), has been proposed as an independent clinical entity. ABSSSIs include three entities: cellulitis and erysipelas, wound infections, and major cutaneous abscesses This paper revises the epidemiology of SSTIs and ABSSSIs with regard to etiologies, diagnostic techniques, and clinical presentation in the hospital settings. Particular attention is owed to frail patients with multiple comorbidities and underlying significant disease states, hospitalized on internal medicine wards or residing in nursing homes, who appear to be at increased risk of infection due to multi-drug resistant pathogens and treatment failures. Management of ABSSSIs and SSTIs, including evaluation of the hemodynamic state, surgical intervention and treatment with appropriate antibiotic therapy are extensively discussed.
In 2015, the doctors and nurses of the 4th Department of Internal Medicine of the First Faculty of Medicine, Charles University and the General University Hospital in Prague celebrated the 70th anniversary of its founding. The article summarizes the clinics contribution to the field of internal medicine, and particularly to angiology, hepatogastroenterology and lipidology. It comments the clinics current activities and the possibilities of its further development. Attention is also paid to the tradition of high ethical and professional standards of medical care in accordance with the norms established by the clinic's founder, prof. MUDr. Bohumil Prus챠k.
BACKGROUND The treatment of patients with dementia in acute care hospitals is becoming increasingly more important. The aim of this study was to investigate and demonstrate aspects of the healthcare situation and resource consumption of dementia patients during their hospital stay in a ward for internal medicine.   MATERIAL AND METHODS Secondary data from a ward of internal medicine were analyzed on a retrospective and case-related basis. For 100 patients a diagnosis of dementia by a general practitioner before hospitalization was identified. The control group was selected by age and sex from the other patients in the ward (n혻= 100). The costs were calculated on the basis of the German diagnosis-related groups (G-DRG) flat rate case classification. The relationship between dementia, deviation from the average length of stay and costs was investigated under the control of comorbidities using multivariate regression analysis.   RESULTS Patients with dementia had poorer health at admission with respect to functionality and orientation and a higher risk of falls and pressure ulcers. During hospitalization patients with dementia fell more frequently than patients without dementia (12% versus 3%, p혻= 0.029). Regarding the average length of stay, according to the G멏RG catalogue patients with dementia stayed 1.4 days longer in hospital than patients without dementia and caused excess costs of 19%.   CONCLUSION Patients with dementia are a highly vulnerable patient group with a higher consumption of resources than patients without dementia. The results demonstrate the care-related and economic consequences, which the increasing number of patients with dementia could have in the future.
OBJECTIVE We aimed to determine the frequency, type, and etiology of infections and the risk factors for infections and mortality in hospitalized cancer patients.   MATERIALS AND METHODS We prospectively enrolled adult cancer patients hospitalized in the internal medicine wards of a tertiary care academic center between January and August 2004. Patients were followed during their hospitalization periods for neutropenia, infections, culture results, and mortality.   RESULTS We followed 473 cancer patients with 818 hospitalization episodes and 384 infection episodes in total. Seventy-nine percent of the infections were nosocomial, and febrile neutropenia (FN) was observed in 196 (51%) of the infection episodes. Bacteremia was found in 29% of FN episodes and in 8% of nonneutropenic patients. Gram-positive bacteria were the leading cause of bacteremia in both neutropenic and nonneutropenic cases (70% and 58%, respectively). Presence of an indwelling central catheter increased bacteremia risk by 3-fold. The overall mortality rate was 17%, whereas 34% of the patients with bloodstream infections died. Presence of bacteremia and advanced disease stage increased overall mortality by 6.1-fold and 3.7-fold, respectively.   CONCLUSION Nearly half of the cancer patients developed an infection during their hospital stays, with gram-positive bacteria being the predominant etiologic microorganisms. This demonstrates the changing trends in infections considering that, until 2004, gram-negative bacteria were the most predominant microorganisms among cancer patients in our institute.
OBJECTIVE The objective of this study is to understand physicians' usage of inpatient notes by (i) ascertaining different clinical note-entry and reading/retrieval styles in two different and widely used Electronic Health Record (EHR) systems, (ii) extrapolating potential factors leading to adoption of various note-entry and reading/retrieval styles and (iii) determining the amount of time to task associated with documenting different types of clinical notes.   METHODS In order to answer 'what' and 'why' questions on physicians' adoption of certain-note-entry and reading/retrieval styles, an ethnographic study entailing Internal Medicine residents, with a mixed data analysis approach was performed. Participants were observed interacting with two different EHR systems in inpatient settings. Data was collected around the use and creation of History and Physical (H&P) notes, progress notes and discharge summaries.   RESULTS The highest variability in template styles was observed with progress notes and the least variability was within discharge summaries, while note-writing styles were most consistent for H&P notes. The first sections to be read in a H&P and progress note were the Chief Complaint and Assessment & Plan sections, respectively. The greatest note retrieval variability, with respect to the order of how note sections were reviewed, was observed with H&P and progress notes. Physician preference for adopting a certain reading/retrieval order appeared to be a function of what best fits their workflow while fulfilling the stimulus demands. The time spent entering H&P, discharge summaries and progress notes were similar in both EHRs.   CONCLUSION This research study unveils existing variability in clinical documentation processes and provides us with important information that could help in designing a next generation EHR Graphical User Interface (GUI) that is more congruent with physicians' mental models, task performance needs, and workflow requirements.
Many refugees experience severely stressful events in their home countries, during migration and occasionally even after arrival in the country of destination. The individual reactions not only influence the mental health but also somatic well being. Traumatic events may have an essential impact on psychosocial functioning; moreover, the social circumstances during the integration process influence mental stability. Physicians play an important role in identifying possible traumatization and subsequently guiding towards adequate treatment; hence, the healthcare of refugees should regularly include psychosomatic and psychotraumatological aspects. Knowledge of screening instruments, trauma-informed care and interpreter-assisted communication are necessary to meet required standards.
Catatonia is a motor and behavioural syndrome with multiple psychiatric, general medical and neurological aetiologies that might be simultaneously present. B12 deficiency is a rare, treatable cause of catatonia, not always easy to rule out. The authors present a case of a woman with catatonia associated with severe cyanocobalamin deficiency, admitted to an internal medicine ward. The benign course was related to an adequate and early diagnosis.
BACKGROUND The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education requires residents to learn and demonstrate proficiency in practice improvement. Quality improvement (QI) projects are a way to improve patient care as well as facilitate education on this core competency. There are inherent barriers to completing these goals in the structure of residency training including rigorous resident schedules and a limited number of projects and resources.   OBJECTIVES We developed a QI programme using an experiential class project and incorporated it into our Internal Medicine Resident Core Curriculum to improve the residents' knowledge of QI methods. We assessed the residents' experience, knowledge and interest in practice and QI subject matter with a survey preimplementation and postimplementation.   METHODS In 2009, 24 residents in the Internal Medicine resident programme completed a survey measuring their experience, knowledge and interest in QI initiatives. They then completed a QI 1-year programme, with monthly, 1-hour sessions combining didactics and a resident-designed project. At the conclusion of the year, the residents completed the same survey, and the results were compared and analysed.   RESULTS Postcurriculum questionnaires revealed residents were more knowledgeable about QI methods, showing improvement in knowledge about institutional-wide QI projects, better preparation for implementing a QI project, and more likely to participate in QI in the future. The project completed was one which improved patients' knowledge of their anticipated date of discharge from the hospital.   CONCLUSIONS A class quality project can teach QI to residents incorporating both didactic and practical methods to maximise the experience and minimise the barriers. We found that this method improved residents experience, knowledge and interest in quality initiatives.
BACKGROUND The prognostic significance of red cell distribution width (RDW) during hospitalization in internal medicine wards was not sufficiently investigated.   METHODS Demographic, clinical and laboratory characteristics were collected from 586 internal medicine inpatients. Following discharge, all-cause mortality was recorded. The data were compared according to RDW during hospitalization (primary endpoint), and to normal (14.7%) vs. high (>14.7%) RDW values on admission/discharge (secondary endpoint).   RESULTS Group A (rise in RDW, RDW +0.4%), group B (nonsignificant RDW changes, RDW up to 0.4%) and group C (drop in RDW, RDW -0.4%) comprised 20.3%, 60.6% and 19.1% of the patients, respectively. High RDW on admission and discharge was found in 31.7% and 31.4% of patients, respectively. In-hospital mortality rates were higher in group A than in groups B and C (14.3% vs. 2.8% and 4.5%, p<0.001), whereas increased long-term (median follow-up 43 months) mortality rates were observed in group C (35.7%), compared to groups A (17.6%) and B (23.4%), p=0.009. Mortality rates were significantly higher (p<0.001) in patients with high than normal RDW on admission (51.1% vs. 20.3%) and on discharge (50.5% vs. 20.6%). Every 1% increment of RDW on admission and discharge strongly predicted mortality (relative risks 1.21 and 1.21; 95% confidence intervals 1.12-1.31 and 1.13-1.32, respectively).   CONCLUSIONS High RDW on admission and discharge predicted poor prognosis. Rising RDW throughout hospitalization was associated with higher in-hospital mortality, while an elevated long-term mortality rate was observed in patients with declining RDW. Repeated RDW measurements may improve risk stratification for internal medicine inpatients.
The debate about three-year medical school curricula has resurfaced recently, driven by rising education debt burden and a predicted physician shortage. In this Perspective, the authors call for an evidence-based discussion of the merits and challenges of three-year curricula. They examine published evidence that suggests that three-year curricula are viable, including studies on three-year curricula in (1) U.S. medical schools in the 1970s and 1980s, (2) two Canadian medical schools with more than four decades of experience with such curricula, and (3) accelerated family medicine and internal medicine programs. They also briefly describe the new three-year programs that are being implemented at eight U.S. medical schools, including their own. Finally, they offer suggestions regarding how to enhance the discussion between the proponents of and those with concerns about three-year curricula.
RATIONALE, AIMS AND OBJECTIVES Structuring the diagnostic section of the medical record (MR) improves diagnosis and communication between doctors. However, little is known about the therapeutic section of the MR. The aim of this study was to gain insight into the extent to which MRs are structured for therapeutic information, to determine which therapeutic data registrars and clinical consultants consider should be recorded in the MR and to what extent registrars record this information themselves.   METHODS A multicentre observational study was carried out in the internal medicine outpatient clinics of five teaching hospitals in the Netherlands. Preformatted structure, importance and actual recording of therapeutic information was compared with a reference list of 35 therapeutic items based on the WHO Guide to Good Prescribing (e.g. drug name, indication for drug).   RESULTS The preformatted structure of four paper MRs and one electronic MR was assessed. Eight of the 35 therapeutic items were listed in the paper MRs and 18 items in the electronic MR. Registrars and consultants agreed on the importance of recording most of the therapeutic items in the MR, 25 and 27 out of the 35 items, respectively; however, registrars recorded only 11 of the 35 items in the paper MR and 20 of the 35 items in the electronic MR.   CONCLUSIONS The structure and content of paper and electronic MRs are not adequate. While both registrars and consultants agree on the importance of recording therapeutic items in the MR, registrars fail to record most of this information in practice. The results of this study can be used as starting point for the discussion regarding the necessity of structured recording of therapeutic information in the MR and its possible benefits with regard to medication safety and training of the new generation of prescribers.
BACKGROUND The INTERMED was developed for the early identification of biological, psychological, social and health system factors considered interacting in health complexity. This is defined as the interference with the achievement of expected or desired health and service use outcomes when patients are exposed to standard care.   OBJECTIVE The aim of this study was to test the INTERMED's ability to identify 'case' and 'care' complexity, identifying patients that would especially benefit from integrated care.   METHODS Observational longitudinal study of Internal medicine in patients in two National Health System hospitals in Spain using the INTERMED (patients scoring  21 were considered to be 'complex'); the Cumulative Illness Rating Scale (CIRS), a severity of illness assessment; and standard clinical variables.   RESULTS Six hundred and fifteen consecutives were included, and the prevalence of health complexity was 27.6%. The greatest differences between patients with and without health complexity were observed in the non-biological domains. Eighty-five per cent of patients with health complexity had non-biological items considered to require timely (immediately or soon) assistance or intervention compared to 30% of those without, nearly a threefold difference. Complex patients had a significantly higher number of medical diagnoses (p = 0.002) and number of psychiatric referrals (p = 0.041), but there were no differences in CIRS scores or lengths of stay.   CONCLUSION The INTERMED has the potential to identify a considerable subset of complex internal medicine inpatients for which timely corrective action related to non-biological risk factors not typically uncovered during standard medical evaluations would be considered beneficial.
BACKGROUND We aimed to determine whether patients and providers were satisfied with teledermoscopy consultation for skin lesions.   METHODS From 2010 to 2011, patients with clinically suspicious lesions were referred for teledermoscopy by internal medicine physicians. Lesions were digitally photographed using a dermatoscope accessory lens. Images were interpreted by an on-call dermatologist. We conducted same day surveys of providers and patients after the evaluations.   RESULTS The survey response rate was 100%. Of the 20 patients surveyed, all agreed that a teledermoscopic consult was convenient and helpful. Nineteen patients (95%) strongly agreed that teledermoscopy potentially was a cost-saving tool. All providers thought the evaluations were helpful. Ninety-five percent of providers and patients reported satisfaction with the ease of use of this technology.   CONCLUSIONS Teledermoscopy may give primary care providers the ability to consult with dermatologists when seeing patients in remote or medically underserved areas. This can streamline the referral process and decrease the number of referrals for benign lesions.
OBJECTIVES In July 2011 the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education implemented new resident duty-hour regulations in an effort to improve resident well-being, clinical performance, and patient care. These regulations have the potential, however, to reduce the number of new patient encounters handled by trainees and thereby could be detrimental to resident education. Our objective was to describe how the 2011 duty-hour regulations affected the volume of new inpatient general medicine encounters at two large academic medical centers. We looked specifically at new patient encounters because we assumed they provided the richest learning opportunities. We hypothesized that the implementation of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education regulations would be associated with a reduction in the number of new admissions per day and result in a decrease in the number of annual admissions performed by first-year medical residents.   METHODS We conducted a retrospective ecological study. We reviewed general medicine admissions data from two large academic hospitals affiliated with the University of Washington: Harborview Medical Center and the University of Washington Medical Center. We abstracted the number of admissions, source of admission, and average intern census on 56 randomly selected days before and after the regulations were implemented (academic years 2010-2011 [AY11] and 2011-2012 [AY12]). We generated descriptive statistics (means, proportions, and 95% confidence intervals) and then used a two-sample t test to compare the number of admissions per day, admission source, and average daily intern census between AY11 and AY12.   RESULTS At the University of Washington Medical Center, single-intern teams admitted 4.5 patients per day in AY11 compared with 3.1 in AY12 (P < 0.001). At Harborview Medical Center, two-intern teams admitted 11.1 patients per day in AY11 versus 7.9 in AY12 (P < 0.001). Night interns admitted 0.9 patients per shift in AY11 versus 2.4 in AY12 (P < 0.001). After implementing the new duty hours, daytime admissions from the emergency department decreased and admissions as transfers from the intensive care unit increased. The average intern census was not affected by the duty-hour regulations.   CONCLUSIONS Medicine residents admit fewer patients on daytime inpatient general medicine services under the new duty-hour regulations; however, this is completely offset by an increase in the number of admissions performed on the night rotation, resulting in no net change in the total number of new inpatient encounters handled by first-year medical residents during the course of the academic year. Although this is reassuring, changes that were made in response to the work-hour rules have altered how new admissions are distributed to teams, which has important implications for curricular design and supervision.
OBJECTIVES The purpose of this study is to report the prevalence, clinical characteristics, precipitating factors, management and outcome of patients with prior stroke hospitalised with acute heart failure (HF).   DESIGN Retrospective analysis of prospectively collected data.   SETTING Data were derived from Gulf CARE (Gulf aCute heArt failuRe rEgistry), a prospective multicentre study of consecutive patients hospitalised with acute HF in 2012 in seven Middle Eastern countries and analysed according to the presence or absence of prior stroke; demographics, management and outcomes were compared.   PARTICIPANTS A total of 5005 patients with HF.   OUTCOME MEASURES In-hospital and 1-year outcome.   RESULTS The prevalence of prior stroke in patients with HF was 8.1%. Patients with stroke with HF were more likely to be admitted under the care of internists rather than cardiologists. When compared with patients without stroke, patients with stroke were more likely to be older and to have diabetes mellitus, hypertension, atrial fibrillation, hyperlipidaemia, chronic kidney disease, ischaemic heart disease, peripheral arterial disease and left ventricular dysfunction (p=0.001 for all). Patients with stroke were less likely to be smokers (0.003). There were no significant differences in terms of precipitating risk factors for HF hospitalisation between the two groups. Patients with stroke with HF had a longer hospital stay (mean짹SD days; 11짹14 vs 9짹13, p=0.03), higher risk of recurrent strokes and 1-year mortality rates (32.7% vs 23.2%, p=0.001). Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that stroke is an independent predictor of in-hospital and 1-year mortality.   CONCLUSIONS This observational study reports high prevalence of prior stroke in patients hospitalised with HF. Internists rather than cardiologists were the predominant caregivers in this high-risk group. Patients with stroke had higher risk of in-hospital recurrent strokes and long-term mortality rates.   TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER NCT01467973.
BACKGROUND The use of the borderline regression method (BRM) is a widely accepted standard setting method for OSCEs. However, it is unclear whether this method is appropriate for use with small cohorts (e.g. specialist post-graduate examinations).   AIMS AND METHODS This work uses an innovative application of resampling methods applied to four pre-existing OSCE data sets (number of stations between 17 and 21) from two institutions to investigate how the robustness of the BRM changes as the cohort size varies. Using a variety of metrics, the 'quality' of an OSCE is evaluated for cohorts of approximately n=300 down to n=15. Estimates of the standard error in station-level and overall pass marks, R(2) coefficient, and Cronbach's alpha are all calculated as cohort size varies.   RESULTS AND CONCLUSION For larger cohorts (n>200), the standard error in the overall pass mark is small (less than 0.5%), and for individual stations is of the order of 1-2%. These errors grow as the sample size reduces, with cohorts of less than 50 candidates showing unacceptably large standard error. Alpha and R(2) also become unstable for small cohorts. The resampling methodology is shown to be robust and has the potential to be more widely applied in standard setting and medical assessment quality assurance and research.
PURPOSE The purpose of this study was to explore the use of an objective structured clinical examination for Internal Medicine residents (IM-OSCE) as a progress test for clinical skills.   METHODS Data from eight administrations of an IM-OSCE were analyzed retrospectively. Data were scaled to a mean of 500 and standard deviation (SD) of 100. A time-based comparison, treating post-graduate year (PGY) as a repeated-measures factor, was used to determine how residents' performance progressed over time.   RESULTS Residents' total IM-OSCE scores (n=244) increased over training from a mean of 445 (SD=84) in PGY-1 to 534 (SD=71) in PGY-3 (p<0.001). In an analysis of sub-scores, including only those who participated in the IM OSCE for all three years of training (n=46), mean structured oral scores increased from 464 (SD=92) to 533 (SD=83) (p<0.001), physical examination scores increased from 464 (SD=82) to 520 (SD=75) (p<0.001), and procedural skills increased from 495 (SD=99) to 555 (SD=67) (p=0.033). There was no significant change in communication scores (p=0.97).   CONCLUSIONS The IM-OSCE can be used to demonstrate progression of clinical skills throughout residency training. Although most of the clinical skills assessed improved as residents progressed through their training, communication skills did not appear to change.
PURPOSE The purpose of this study was to determine whether excessive polypharmacy is associated with a higher survival rate in polypathological patients.   PATIENTS AND METHODS An observational, prospective, and multicenter study was carried out on those polypathological patients admitted to the internal medicine and acute geriatrics departments between March 1 and June 30, 2011. For each patient, data concerning age, sex, comorbidity, Barthel and Lawton-Brody indexes, Pfeiffer's questionnaire, socio-familial Gijon scale, delirium, number of drugs, and number of admissions during the previous year were gathered, and the PROFUND index was calculated. Polypharmacy was defined as the use of  5 drugs and excessive polypharmacy as the use of  10. A 1-year long follow-up was carried out. A logistic regression model was performed to analyze the association of variables with excessive polypharmacy and a Cox proportional hazard model to determine the association between polypharmacy and survival.   RESULTS We included 457 polypathological patients. Mean age was 81.0 (8.8) years and 54.5% were women. The mean number of drugs used was 8.2 (3.4). Excessive polypharmacy was directly associated with heart disease [hazard ratio (HR) 2.33 95% CI 1.40-3.87; p =0.001], respiratory disease [HR 1.87 95% CI 1.13-3.09; p = 0.01], peripheral artery disease/diabetes with retinopathy and/or neuropathy [HR 2.02 95% CI 1.17-3.50; p = 0.01], and the number of admissions during the previous year [HR 1.21 96%CI 1.01-1.44; p = 0.04]. It was inversely associated with delirium [HR 0.48 95% CI 0.25-0.91; p = 0.02]. There were no statistical differences regarding the probability of 1-year survival between patients with no polypharmacy, with simple polypharmacy, and with excessive polypharmacy (0.66, 0.60, and 0.57, respectively, p = 0.12).   CONCLUSIONS A greater use of drugs may not be harmful but is also not associated with a higher probability of survival in polypathological patients.
BACKGROUND Care for many chronic health conditions is delivered by both specialists and generalists. Differences in patients' quality of care and management between generalists and specialists have been well documented for asthma, whereas a few studies for COPD reported no differences.   OBJECTIVE The objective of this study is to compare consistency with Global initiative for chronic Obstructive Lung Disease guidelines, as well as rate, health care utilization, and hospital outcomes of severe acute exacerbation (AE) of COPD patients managed by pulmonologists and internists.   MATERIALS AND METHODS This is a 12-month prospective, comparative observational study among 208 COPD patients who were regularly managed by pulmonologists (Group A) and internists (Group B). Clinical data, health care utilization, and hospital outcomes of the two groups were statistically compared.   RESULTS Out of 208 enrolled patients, 137 (Group A) and 71 (Group B) were managed by pulmonologists and internists, respectively. Pharmacological treatment corresponding to disease severity stages between the two groups was not statistically different. Group A received care consistent with guidelines in terms of annual influenza vaccination (31.4% vs 9.9%, P<0.001) and pulmonary rehabilitation (24.1% vs 0%, P<0.001) greater than Group B. Group A had reduced rates (12.4% vs 23.9%, P=0.033) and numbers of severe AE (0.20짹0.63 person-years vs 0.41짹0.80 person-years, P=0.029). Among patients with severe AE requiring mechanical ventilation, Group A had reduced mechanical ventilator duration (1.5 [1-7] days vs 5 [3-29] days, P=0.005), hospital length of stay (3.5 [1-20] days vs 16 [6-29] days, P=0.012), and total hospital cost ($863 [247-2,496] vs $2,095 [763-6,792], P=0.049) as compared with Group B.   CONCLUSION This study demonstrated that pulmonologists followed national COPD guidelines more closely than internists. The rates and frequencies of severe AE were significantly lower in patients managed by pulmonologists, and length of hospital stay and cost were significantly lower among the patients with severe AE who required mechanical ventilation.
BACKGROUND Junior physicians are sometimes sent in ambulances with critically ill patients who require urgent transfer to another hospital. Unfamiliar surroundings and personnel, time pressure, and lack of experience may imply a risk of insufficient treatment during transportation as this can cause the physician to loose the expected overview of the situation. While health care professionals are expected to follow complex algorithms when resuscitating, stress can compromise both solo-performance and teamwork.   AIM To examine whether inter-hospital resuscitation improved with a structured team briefing between physician and ambulance crew in preparation for transfer vs. review of resuscitation guidelines. The effect parameters were physician team leadership (requesting help, delegating tasks), time to resuscitation key elements (chest compressions, defibrillation, ventilations, medication, or a combination of these termed 'the first meaningful action'), and hands-off ratio.   METHODS    PARTICIPANTS 46 physicians graduated within 5 years.   DESIGN A simulation intervention study with a control group and two interventions (structured team briefing or review of guidelines). Scenario: Cardiac arrest during simulated inter-hospital transfer.   RESULTS Forty-six candidates participated: 16 (control), 13 (review), and 17 (team briefing). Reviewing guidelines delayed requesting help to 162 seconds, compared to 21 seconds in control and team briefing groups (p = 0.021). Help was not requested in 15% of cases; never requesting help was associated with an increased hands-off ratio, from 39% if the driver's assistance was requested to 54% if not (p < 0.01). No statistically significant differences were found between groups regarding time to first chest compression, defibrillation, ventilation, drug administration, or the combined 'time to first meaningful action'.   CONCLUSION Neither review nor team briefing improved the time to resuscitation key elements. Review led to an eight-fold increase in the delay to requesting help. The association between never requesting help and an increased hands-off ratio underpins the importance of prioritising available resources. Other medical and non-medical domains have benefited from the use of guidelines reviews and structured team briefings. Reviewing guidelines may compromise the ability to focus on aspects such as team leading and delegating tasks and warrants the need for further studies focusing on how to avoid this cognitive impairment.
BACKGROUND Although as much as 87 % of all healthcare spending is directed by physicians, studies have demonstrated that they lack knowledge about the costs of medical care. Similarly, learners have not traditionally received instruction on cost-conscious care.   OBJECTIVE To examine medical students' perceptions of healthcare delivery as it relates to cost consciousness   DESIGN Retrospective qualitative analysis of medical student narratives   PARTICIPANTS Third-year medical students during their inpatient internal medicine clerkship   MAIN MEASURES Students completed a reflective exercise wherein they were asked to describe a scenario in which a patient experienced lack of attention to cost-conscious care, and were asked to identify solutions and barriers. We analyzed these reflections to learn more about students' awareness and perceptions regarding the practice of cost-conscious care within our medical center.   KEY RESULTS Eighty students submitted the assignment between July and December 2012. The most common problems identified included unnecessary tests and treatments (n=69) and duplicative tests and treatments (n=20.) With regards to solutions, students described 82 scenarios, with 125 potential solutions identified. Students most commonly used discussion with the team (speak up, ask why) as the process they would use (n=28) and most often wanted to focus lab testing (n=38) as the intervention. The most common barriers to high-value care included increased time and effort (n=19), ingrained practices (n=17), and defensive medicine or fear of missing something (n=18.)   CONCLUSIONS Even with minimal clinical experience, medical students were able to identify instances of lack of attention to cost-conscious care as well as potential solutions. Although students identified the hierarchy in healthcare teams as a potential barrier to improving high value care, most students stated they would feel comfortable engaging the team in discussion. Future efforts to empower learners at all levels to question value decisions and to develop and implement solutions may result in improved healthcare.
In the spring of 2013, the Swedish journalist Maciej Zaremba wrote a series of articles criticizing the impact of NPM (New Public Management) on Swedish health care. The present study examines the views of experienced Swedish physicians (general practitioners and internal medicine speclialists) on the problems focused in Mr Zaremba's article series. The respondents (51 general practitioners and 61 internal medicine specialists) mention advantages as well as disadvantages with NPM in Swedish health care. The majority agrees that with NPM, physicians loose influence over health care governance to other professional groups. The majority disagree with the charge made by Mr Zaremba that NPM has had the effect of manipulating Swedish physicians away from the standards of good medical care.
OBJECTIVES Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are one of the most common infections encountered in ambulatory care and inpatient settings. Although these infections are common, not all patients are prescribed an appropriate antibiotic or duration of therapy. The primary objective of this analysis was to evaluate the appropriateness of antibiotic selection and duration of therapy for patients in an adult internal medicine clinic diagnosed as having a UTI.   METHODS We conducted a retrospective chart review (July 1, 2012-June 30, 2013) of adult patients in an internal medicine clinic who were diagnosed as having a UTI. Pediatric and pregnant patients were excluded from the analysis. Data pertaining to the classification of UTI, antibiotic regimen, urine culture, and renal function were collected. All of the data were analyzed to determine whether the prescribing habits at the internal medicine clinic aligned with Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) guidelines for antibiotic selection and duration of therapy for acute uncomplicated cystitis, complicated cystitis, catheter-associated UTI, and pyelonephritis.   RESULTS There were 269 records available for the analysis, with the majority of the cases being uncomplicated and complicated UTIs. Of 128 cases of patients with uncomplicated UTIs and 116 cases of patients with complicated UTIs, 64.1% and 42.2%, respectively, were prescribed appropriate first- or second-line therapy, which aligned with the recommendations of the IDSA. Regarding the individual components of the UTI treatment regimen, antibiotic selection had the highest frequency of appropriateness, with 97.6% of uncomplicated UTI cases and 90.5% of complicated UTI cases having been treated with a recommended antibiotic. In contrast, the treatment duration for uncomplicated and complicated UTIs had the lowest frequency of appropriateness, at 71.9% and 58.6%, respectively.   CONCLUSIONS Receiving an adequate antibiotic regimen for a UTI is important to prevent treatment failure and the emergence of resistant organisms. Overall, the studied antibiotic regimens prescribed for various UTIs diagnosed in the clinic did not align with the IDSA recommendations.
Inspired by the American Board of Internal Medicine's Choosing Wisely짰 campaign, a group of housestaff at Vanderbilt University Medical Center created the Vanderbilt Choosing Wisely Steering Committee (VCWSC) to explore ways to apply the campaign's principles of high value care to daily practice. In this article, we propose that housestaff leadership is key in the implementation of high value care initiatives at academic health centers (AHCs). We then describe the formation and activities of the VCWSC in the hope that our success will inspire residents at other AHCs to create similar initiatives.
BACKGROUND Patients with treatment-resistant advanced cancer rarely benefit from cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) but infrequently discuss end-of-life care with physicians until hospitalized. Admitting resident physicians may conduct initial code status discussions, but may elicit patients' preferences without providing necessary guidance.   OBJECTIVE We surveyed residents' approach to code status discussions to identify barriers hindering informed decision making.   METHODS We developed an online case-based survey and enrolled subjects via e-mail requests to program directors. U.S. internal medicine residents (n=358; response rate 22.0%) from 19 programs participated. We measured respondents' likelihood of discussing prognosis and benefit of CPR, likelihood of offering code status recommendations, preference for discussing code status independent of attending physicians, and satisfaction with end-of-life discussions.   RESULTS Nearly all residents felt CPR would be unhelpful. Yet fewer than half (46.7%) were likely to discuss an estimate of prognosis and the value of CPR with the patient. Only 30% were likely to offer a recommendation on CPR. A majority (69%) of residents who were unwilling to offer a recommendation stated that deference to patient autonomy prevented them from providing guidance. Residents preferred to discuss code status independent of attendings, primarily due to a sense of responsibility. Ultimately, only a minority was satisfied with end-of-life discussions.   CONCLUSION U.S. internal medicine resident physicians are unlikely to discuss prognosis or offer recommendations on CPR in treatment-refractory cancer principally because of a conflict with their concept of patient autonomy. Given the futility associated with CPR in this setting, these data define an unmet need in training and practice.
The objective of the study was to validate externally and prospectively the PROFUND index to predict survival of polypathological patients after a year. An observational, prospective and multicenter study was performed. Polypathological patients admitted to an internal medicine or geriatrics department and attended by investigators consecutively between March 1 and June 30, 2011 were included. Data concerning age, gender, comorbidity, Barthel and Lawton-Brody indexes, Pfeiffer questionnaire, socio-familial Gijon scale, delirium, number of drugs and number of admissions during the previous year were gathered for each patient. The PROFUND index was calculated. The follow-up lasted 1 year. A Cox proportional regression model was calculated, and was used to analyze the association of the variables to mortality and C-statistic. 465 polypathological patients, 333 from internal medicine and 132 from geriatrics, were included. One-year mortality is associated with age [hazard ratio (HR) 1.52 95 % CI 1.04-2.12; p = 0.01], presence of neoplasia [HR 2.68 95 % CI 1.71-4.18; p = 0.0001] and dependence for basic activities of daily living [HR 2.34 95 % CI 1.61-3.40; p = 0.0009]. In predicting mortality, the PROFUND index shows good discrimination in patients from internal medicine (C-statistics 0.725 95 % CI 0.670-0.781), but a poor one in those from geriatrics (0.546 95 % CI 0.448-0.644). The PROFUND index is a reliable tool for predicting mortality in internal medicine PP patients.
BACKGROUND Many academic hospitals have implemented overnight hospitalists to supervise house staff and improve outcomes, but few studies have described the impact of this role.   OBJECTIVE To investigate the effect of an overnight academic hospitalist program on patient-level outcomes. Secondary objectives were to describe the program's revenue generation and work tasks.   DESIGN Retrospective interrupted time-series analysis of patients admitted to the medicine service before and after implementation of the program.   PARTICIPANTS All patients aged 18 and older admitted to the acute or intermediate care units between 7:00 p.m. and 6:59 a.m. during the period before (April 2011-August 2012) and after (September 2012-April 2014) program implementation.   INTERVENTION An on-site attending-level physician directly supervising medicine house staff overnight, providing clinical care during high-volume periods, and ensuring safe handoffs to daytime providers.   MAIN MEASURES Primary outcomes included in-hospital mortality, 30-day hospital readmissions, length of stay, and upgrades in care on the night of admission and during hospitalization. Multivariable models estimated the effect on outcomes after adjusting for secular trends. Revenue generation and work tasks are reported descriptively.   KEY RESULTS During the study period, 6484 patients were admitted to the medicine service: 2722 (42 %) before and 3762 (58 %) after implementation. No differences were found in mortality (1.1 % vs. 0.9 %, p=0.38), 30-day readmissions (14.8 % vs. 15.6 %, p=0.39), mean length of stay (3.09 vs. 3.08 days, p=0.86), or upgrades to intensive care on the night of admission (0.4 % vs. 0.7 %, p=0.11) or during hospitalization (3.5 % vs. 4.2 %, p=0.20). During the first year, hospitalists billed 1209 patient encounters (3.3/shift) and 63 procedures (0.2/shift), and supervised 1939 patient admissions (6.12/shift) while supervising house staff 3-h/shifts.   CONCLUSIONS Implementation of an overnight academic hospitalist program showed no impact on several important clinical outcomes, and revenue generation was modest. As overnight hospitalist programs develop, investigations are needed to delineate the return on investment and focus on other outcomes that may be more sensitive to change, such as errors and provider/patient satisfaction.
OBJECTIVE In order to guide curricular innovation, we looked at the feasibility and utility of performing a targeted needs assessment of the communication skills of PGY2 internal medicine (IM) residents in their continuity clinic, utilizing faculty direct observation with a validated instrument for communication skills evaluation.   METHODS A convenience sample of PGY2 residents in the Emory University School of Medicine IM Residency Program was invited to participate. Using the SEGUE Framework, a checklist of medical communication tasks, faculty assessed residents during a clinic encounter.   RESULTS Thirty out of 53 (57%) PGY2 residents were assessed. SEGUE results indicate residents were most likely to 'maintain patient's privacy' (100%), 'greet patient appropriately' (97%) and 'check/clarify information' (100%). Residents were least likely to 'acknowledge waiting time' (7%), 'explore psychosocial/emotional factors' (27%) and 'outline agenda for visit' (33%).   CONCLUSION The SEGUE Framework is a feasible tool to evaluate the communication skills of IM residents in a clinic setting. Many PGY2 IM residents in a large, urban practice do not elicit important psychosocial information during outpatient clinic visits.   PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS More observation and evaluation of residents' communication skills are needed, with emphasis on building skills to 'Understand the Patient's Perspective.'
PURPOSE One way to ensure quality of health care in the United States is through maintenance of certification (MOC). In this study, the authors explored whether participation in the internal medicine MOC program varies by physician-level characteristics, professional activities, and the size and location of the practice. They also sought to determine which component of MOC was incomplete for physicians who participated but did not complete the program.   METHOD The authors used a theoretical realist approach to understand whether participation in the American Board of Internal Medicine MOC program varies according to physician and practice characteristics. The data came from a study sample that consisted of all physicians whose original certification was granted in internal medicine from 1990 through 1999; the study was conducted in 2013. Chi-square tests of independence and a multinomial logistic regression were conducted to determine which physician-level characteristics, professional activities, and practice characteristics were significantly associated with MOC participation.   RESULTS Results showed that physicians who completed MOC tended to have higher certification exam scores; were younger; were U.S. medical graduates; practiced as subspecialists and in the Midwest; spent more time in patient care, teaching, or administration; worked in nonsolo practices; or were employed in counties with less than 20% of persons in poverty.   CONCLUSIONS As certifying boards evaluate their programs, they need to continuously improve their features to assure the public that physicians maintaining certification are providing high-quality patient care.
Diagnosis and treatment of catatonia in the psychiatry consultation service is not infrequent. Usually, the patient either presents to the Emergency Department or develops catatonia on the medical floor. This condition manifests with significant behavioral changes (from mildly decreased speech output to complete mutism) that interfere with the ability to communicate. After structural brain disorders are excluded, one of the diagnoses that always should be considered is catatonia. However, the causes of catatonia are numerous, ranging from psychiatric causes to a plethora of medical illnesses. Therefore, it is not surprising that there are many proposed underlying mechanisms of catatonia and that controversy persists about the etiology of specific cases.There are only 6 reports of hyponatremia-induced catatonia and psychosis in the literature. Here, we present the case of a 30-year-old woman with catatonia and psychosis induced by hyponatremia, and we use this report to exemplify the multitude of biologic causes of catatonia and to propose a new way to look at the neuroanatomical basis of processing, particularly the vertical processing systems we believe are involved in catatonia.
BACKGROUND There is a lack of young surgeons in Germany. In order to provide a successful learning environment in medical education and to attract more physicians, training concepts need to be regularly controlled.   MATERIAL AND METHODS Evaluation results compiled over several years from the Hanover Medical School (MHH) were analyzed for gender-related differences. In addition to overall satisfaction with practical training items were included that consider aspects of interaction between students and instructors. Furthermore, alumni studies provided data on the postgraduate specialty choice made by MHH students.   OBJECTIVES Surgical training is integrated into medical education as block training periods of various durations. Against the background of an increased percentage of women in medicine this article analyzed whether surgery is evaluated differently between female and male medical students with respect to their experiences in clinical teaching.   RESULTS Evaluations of clinical training in surgery demonstrated that female and male medical students do not differ substantially with respect to the teaching quality; however, young female physicians choose surgery as a professional option less frequently than men.   CONCLUSION A systematic review of clinical training evaluations is crucial to identify weaknesses of current curricula. More empirical data from other faculties can induce discussions about the attractiveness of surgery as a profession.
Identifying new practice-changing articles is challenging. To determine the 2015 practice-changing articles most relevant to outpatient general internal medicine, 3 internists independently reviewed the titles and abstracts of original articles, synopses of single studies and syntheses, and databases of syntheses. For original articles, internal medicine journals with the 7 highest impact factors were reviewed: New England Journal of Medicine, Lancet, Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA), British Medical Journal, Public Library of Science Medicine, Annals of Internal Medicine, and JAMA Internal Medicine. For synopses of single studies and syntheses, collections in American College of Physicians Journal Club, Journal Watch, and Evidence-Based Medicine were reviewed. For databases of synthesis, Evidence Updates and the Cochrane Library were reviewed. More than 100 articles were identified. Criteria for inclusion were as follows: clinical relevance, potential for practice change, and strength of evidence. Clusters of important articles around one topic were considered as a single-candidate series. The 5 authors used a modified Delphi method to reach consensus on inclusion of 7 topics for in-depth appraisal.
OBJECTIVE To examine and compare perceptions between resident-trainees and faculty-educators on goals and reasons why resident trainees choose certain subspecialty elective rotations.   METHODS In June 2013 residents and faculty-educators at a large tertiary care academic medical center were surveyed regarding perceived resident goals for subspecialty electives. Each group was sent a different electronic survey of parallel questions assessing agreement on an ordered scale with statements about which factors impacted resident choice.   RESULTS The survey was sent to 154 residents and had 75 (49%) respondents, as well as 20 faculty-educators with 12 (60%) respondents. Residents and faculty did not differ in their responses that electives were chosen to fill perceived knowledge gaps (exact Cochran-Armitage p = .51). However, educators and residents significantly varied in the degree to which they thought resident choice was based on networking within the field (exact Cochran-Armitage p = .01), auditioning for fellowship (exact Cochran-Armitage p < .01), or exploring career options (exact Cochran-Armitage p = .01), with educators overestimating the degree to which these impacted resident choice.   CONCLUSIONS Resident trainees and faculty educators agree that subspecialty electives are most frequently chosen in order to meet resident educational goals, highlighting the importance of developing and delivering high quality subspecialty curricular content for the internal medicine resident learner during electives. Many residents choose electives for career development reasons, but faculty educators overestimate this motivation.
PROBLEM Physicians must be competent in several different kinds of communication skills in order to implement shared decision making; however, these skills are not part of routine medical student education, nor are they formally taught during residency training.   INTERVENTION We developed a 1- and 2-hour workshop curriculum for internal medicine residents to promote shared decision making in treatment decisions for four common chronic conditions: diabetes, depression, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia. The workshops included a written case exercise, a short didactic presentation on shared decision-making concepts and strategies for risk communication, and two role-playing exercises focused on decision making for depression and hyperlipidemia treatment.   CONTEXT We delivered the workshop as a required component of the resident curriculum in ambulatory medicine. To evaluate the impact of the workshop, we used written course evaluations, tracked the use of the newly introduced Decision Worksheets, and asked preceptors to perform direct observation of treatment decision conversations.   OUTCOME Residents were involved in the development of the workshop and helped identify key content, suggested framing for difficult topics, and confirmed the need for the skills workshop. One hundred thirty internal medicine and medicine-pediatrics residents attended 8 workshops over a 4-month period. In written cases completed before the workshop, the majority of residents indicated that they would discuss medications, but few mentioned other treatment options or documented patients' goals and preferences in a sample encounter note with a patient with new depression symptoms. Overall, most participants (89.7%) rated the workshop as excellent or very good, and 93.5% said that they would change their practice based on what they learned. Decision Worksheets addressing diabetes, depression, hyperlipidemia, and hypertension were available on a primary care-focused intranet site and were downloaded almost 1,200 times in the first 8 months following the workshops. Preceptors were able to observe only one consult during which one of the four topics was discussed.   LESSONS LEARNED Internal medicine residents had considerable gaps in shared decision-making skills as measured in a baseline written exercise. Residents provided valuable contributions to the development of a Decision Worksheet to be used at the point of care. Participants rated the skills workshop highly, though interns rated the exercise more useful than PGY-2 and PGY-3 residents did. The Decision Worksheets were accessed often following the sessions; however, observing the Decision Worksheets in use in real time was a challenge in the resident-faculty clinic. Additional studies are warranted to examine whether the workshop was successful in increasing residents' ability to implement skills in practice.
BACKGROUND In contrast to historical feedback, which was vague or provided residents' numerical scores without clear meaning, milestone-based feedback is focused on specific knowledge, skills, and behaviors that define developmental trajectory. It was anticipated that residents would welcome the more specific and actionable feedback provided by the milestone framework, but this has not been studied.   OBJECTIVE We assessed internal medicine (IM) residents' perceptions of receiving feedback in the milestone framework, particularly assessing perception of the utility of milestone-based feedback compared to non-milestone-based feedback.   METHODS We surveyed a total of 510 IM residents from 7 institutions. Survey questions assessed resident perception of milestone feedback in identifying strengths, weaknesses, and trajectory of professional development. Postgraduate years 2 and 3 (PGY-2 and PGY-3) residents were asked to compare milestones with prior methods of feedback.   RESULTS Of 510 residents, 356 (69.8%) responded. Slightly less than half of the residents found milestone-based feedback 'extremely useful' or 'very useful' in identifying strengths (44%), weaknesses (43%), specific areas for improvement (45%), and appropriate education progress (48%). Few residents found such feedback 'not very useful' or 'not at all useful' in these domains. A total of 51% of PGY-2 and PGY-3 residents agreed that receiving milestone-based feedback was more helpful than previous forms of feedback.   CONCLUSIONS IM residents are aware of the concepts of milestones, and half of the residents surveyed found milestone feedback more helpful than previous forms of feedback. More work needs to be done to understand how milestone-based feedback could be delivered more effectively to enhance resident development.
BACKGROUND Availability of reliable, valid, and feasible workplace-based assessment (WBA) tools is important to allow faculty to make important and complex judgments about resident competence. The Minicard is a WBA direct observation tool designed to provide formative feedback while supporting critical competency decisions.   OBJECTIVE The purpose of this study was to collect validity and feasibility evidence for use of the Minicard for formative assessment of internal medicine residents.   METHODS We conducted a retrospective cohort analysis of Minicard observations from 2005-2011 in 1 institution to obtain validity evidence, including content (settings, observation rates, independent raters); response process (rating distributions across the scale and ratings by month in the program); consequences (qualitative assessment of action plans); and feasibility (time to collect observations).   RESULTS Eighty faculty observers recorded 3715 observations of 73 residents in the inpatient ward (43%), clinic (39%), intensive care (15%), and emergency department (3%) settings. Internal medicine residents averaged 28 (SD=8.4) observations per year from 9 (SD=4.1) independent observers. Minicards had an average of 5 (SD=5.1) discrete recorded observations per card. Rating distributions covered the entire rating scale, and increased significantly over the time in training. Half of the observations included action plans with action-oriented feedback, 11% had observational feedback, 9% had minimal feedback, and 30% had no recorded plan. Observations averaged 15.6 (SD=9.5) minutes.   CONCLUSIONS Validity evidence for the Minicard direct observation tool demonstrates its ability to facilitate identification of 'struggling' residents and provide feedback, supporting its use for the formative assessment of internal medicine residents.
BACKGROUND Written communication skills are integral to patient care handoffs. Residency programs require feasible assessment tools that provide timely formative and summative feedback, ideally linked to the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education Milestones.   OBJECTIVE We describe the use of 1 such tool-UPDATED-to assess written handoff communication skills in internal medicine interns.   METHODS During 2012-2013, the authors piloted a structured practice audit at 1 academic institution to audit written sign-outs completed by 45 interns, using the UPDATED tool, which scores 7 aspects of sign-out communication linked to milestones. Intern sign-outs were audited by trained faculty members throughout the year. Results were incorporated into intern performance reviews and Clinical Competency Committees.   RESULTS A total of 136 sign-outs were audited (averaging 3.1 audits per intern). In the first trimester, 14 interns (31%) had satisfactory audit results. Five interns (11%) had critical deficiencies and received immediate feedback, and the remaining 26 (58%) were assigned future audits due to missing audits or unsatisfactory scores. In the second trimester, 21 interns (68%) had satisfactory results, 1 had critical deficiencies, and 9 (29%) required future audits. Nine of the 10 remaining interns in the final trimester had satisfactory audits. Faculty time was estimated at 10 to 15 minutes per sign-out audited.   CONCLUSIONS The UPDATED audit is a milestone-based tool that can be used to assess written sign-out communication skills in internal medicine residency programs. Future work is planned to adapt the tool for use by senior supervisory residents to appraise sign-outs in real time.
PURPOSE To explore faculty's experience participating in a standardized patient (SP) assessment where they were observed and assessed and then received feedback about their own clinical skills as part of a rater training faculty development program on direct observation.   METHOD In 2012, 45 general internist teaching faculty from 30 residency programs participated in an eight-station SP assessment with cases covering common clinical scenarios. Twenty-one participants (47%) received verbal feedback from SPs and a performance-based score report. All participants reflected on the experience through an independent written exercise, one-on-one interviews, and a focus group discussion. Grounded theory was used to analyze all three reflections.   RESULTS Eleven participants (24%) previously completed an SP assessment post training. Most found the SP assessment valuable and experienced emotions that increased their empathy for learners' experiences being observed, being assessed, and receiving nonspecific feedback. Participants receiving verbal feedback from SPs described different themes around personal improvement plans compared with the nonfeedback group.   CONCLUSIONS Faculty experience many of the same emotions as trainees during SP encounters and view SP assessment as a valuable mechanism to improve their own clinical skills and assessments of trainees. SP assessments may be one approach to provide faculty feedback about core clinical skills needed in their own patient care as well as what they are expected to teach trainees. Although actual changes in participants' clinical or assessor skills were not measured (more research is merited), findings hint at a 'dual benefit' from incorporating SP assessment into a faculty development workshop about assessment.
INTRODUCTION Around 60-70% of diagnostic and therapeutic decisions are based on blood exams. Several errors occur during the pre-analytic phase.   AIMS of this study were: to describe nurses' behaviours in blood specimen collection; to describe prevalence and type of pre-analytical errors; to assess the association between pre-analytical errors and occurrence of unsuitable specimens.   METHODS An observational cross-sectional study was conducted by means of a structured form based on up-to-date clinical recommendations. A researcher observed nurses' behaviors during 172 blood sampling procedures in medical, surgical and emergency care settings. Unsuitable procedures were registered.   RESULTS Most behaviours were correct, however some significantly diverged from recommended practices: active and passive patient identification; respect of antiseptic solution's drying time; rapid removal of tourniquet when blood started flowing. The prevalence of unsuitable specimen reports was significantly higher when the procedure involved a small calibre vein (RP: 0.19; IC95% 0.04 - 0.98; p = 0.03) and when blood drawing was difficult (RP; 3.83; IC95% 1.63 - 9.01; p <0.001).   CONCLUSIONS The pre-analytical phase is important for the diagnostic process and safety of patients. Although some factors  as patients' characteristics  are non-modifiable, some nurses' behaviours could be improved to reduce risk of pre-analytical errors. Further studies are needed to clarify the associations between pre-analytical errors and laboratory outcomes.
INTRODUCTION Organ dysfunction or failure after the first days of ICU treatment and subsequent mortality with respect to the type of intensive care unit (ICU) admission is poorly elucidated. Therefore we analyzed the association of ICU mortality and admission for medical (M), scheduled surgery (ScS) or unscheduled surgery (US) patients mirrored by the occurrence of organ dysfunction/failure (OD/OF) after the first 72h of ICU stay.   METHODS For this retrospective cohort study (23,795 patients; DIVI registry; German Interdisciplinary Association for Intensive Care Medicine (DIVI)) organ dysfunction or failure were derived from the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score (excluding the Glasgow Coma Scale). SOFA scores were collected on admission to ICU and 72h later. For patients with a length of stay of at least five days, a multivariate analysis was performed for individual OD/OF on day three.   RESULTS M patients had the lowest prevalence of cardiovascular failure (M 31%; ScS 35%; US 38%), and the highest prevalence of respiratory (M 24%; ScS 13%; US 17%) and renal failure (M 10%; ScS 6%; US 7%). Risk of death was highest for M- and ScS-patients in those with respiratory failure (OR; M 2.4; ScS 2.4; US 1.4) and for surgical patients with renal failure (OR; M 1.7; ScS 2.7; US 2.4).   CONCLUSION The dynamic evolution of OD/OF within 72h after ICU admission and mortality differed between patients depending on their types of admission. This has to be considered to exclude a systematic bias during multi-center trials.
BACKGROUND Anticoagulation using vitamin K antagonists (VKAs) significantly reduces the risk of recurrent stroke in stroke patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) and is recommended by guidelines.   METHODS The German Competence NETwork on Atrial Fibrillation established a nationwide prospective registry including 9,574 AF patients, providing the opportunity to analyse AF management according to German healthcare providers.   RESULTS On enrolment, 896 (9.4혻%) patients reported a prior ischaemic stroke or transient ischaemic attack. Stroke patients were significantly older, more likely to be female, had a higher rate of cardiovascular risk factors, and more frequently received anticoagulation (almost exclusively VKA) than patients without prior stroke history. Following enrolment, 76.4혻% of all stroke patients without VKA contraindications received anticoagulation, which inversely associated with age (OR 0.95 per year; 95 % CI 0.92-0.97). General practitioners/internists (OR 0.40; 95 % CI 0.21-0.77) and physicians working in regional hospitals (OR 0.47; 95 % CI 0.29-0.77) prescribed anticoagulation for secondary stroke prevention less frequently than physicians working at university hospitals (reference) and office-based cardiologists (OR 1.40; 95 % CI 0.76-2.60). The impact of the treating healthcare provider was less evident in registry patients without prior stroke.   CONCLUSIONS In the AFNET registry, anticoagulation for secondary stroke prevention was prescribed in roughly three-quarters of AF patients, a significantly higher rate than in primary prevention. We identified two factors associated with withholding oral anticoagulation in stroke survivors, namely higher age and-most prominently-treatment by a general practitioner/internist or physicians working at regional hospitals.
PROBLEM Current regulations for internal medicine residency programs require scheduling that minimizes conflict between inpatient and outpatient responsibilities. To meet these regulations, the internal medicine residency program at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center implemented a unique scheduling model--the Alternating Call and Elective Scheduling (ACES) model-in July 2009.   APPROACH Beginning in academic year 2009-2010, the authors restructured schedules for their 95 postgraduate year 2 and 3 internal medicine residents using the ACES model. They report pre- and postimplementation housestaff responses from end-of-year program evaluation and culture-of-safety surveys, as well as residents' pre- and postintervention schedule and patient visit data.   OUTCOMES Prior to the intervention, 13/83 (16%) residents agreed that the structure of residency training minimized conflict between inpatient and outpatient responsibilities; after the intervention, 82/84 (98%) agreed with this statement. Before the intervention, 23/83 (28%) residents felt that the schedule promoted inpatient safety, compared with 83/84 (99%) after the intervention. Agreement that the schedule promoted outpatient safety went from 28/83 (34%) preintervention to 73/84 (87%) postintervention. Before the intervention, 45/84 (54%) residents felt that the schedule promoted a continuous healing relationship with continuity patients, compared with 67/84 (80%) after the intervention. After implementation, residents' continuity visits with their own patients increased by 14%, and total annual patient visits increased by 16%.   NEXT STEPS Separating residents' inpatient and outpatient responsibilities may improve patient safety, the learning environment, and resident-patient relationships. Future innovations might focus on improving patient safety and decreasing stress in the outpatient environment.
INTRODUCTION AND HYPOTHESIS We compared persistence on overactive bladder (OAB) pharmacotherapy in patients treated in the Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery (FPMRS) department compared with patients treated in the Internal Medicine (IM) and General Urology (GU) departments within an integrated health-care system. We hypothesized that persistence would be higher among FPMRS patients.   METHODS This was a retrospective cohort study. Patients with at least one prescription for OAB between January 2003 and July 2014 were identified. Demographic, prescription and treatment specialty data and data on the use of third-line therapies were collected. The primary outcome was persistence, defined as days on continuous pharmacotherapy. Discontinuation was defined as a treatment gap of 45혻days. Discontinuation-free probabilities were calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method and compared among the specialties. Predictors of persistence were estimated using logistic regression with adjustment for covariates. Pearson correlation coefficients were calculated to identify risk associations.   RESULTS A total of 252 subjects were identified. At 12혻weeks, 6혻months and 1혻year, FPMRS patients had the highest persistence rates of 93혻%, 87혻% and 79혻% in contrast to 72혻%, 68혻% and 50혻% in GU patients, and 83혻%, 71혻% and 63혻% in IM patients (p=0.006, p=0.007, p=0.001, respectively). The median persistence in FPMRS patients was 738혻days, in GU patients 313혻days and in IM patients 486혻days (p=0.006). Of the FPMRS patients, 61혻% switched to at least a second medication, as compared to 27혻% of IM patients and 14혻% of GU patients (p<0.0001).   CONCLUSIONS Persistence on OAB pharmacotherapy was higher among FPMRS patients than among GU and IM patients in this community setting. These results suggest that persistence is higher under subspecialist supervision.
BACKGROUND The emerging goals of journal clubs are now considered to be teaching critical appraisal skills and how to use evidence based medicine in practice. Although journal clubs are well accredited, designing the right format to keep members stimulated and educated remains a great challenge.   METHODS We conducted journal club structure modifications in internal medicine residency program of a university affiliated hospital. Initially, group-based sessions identified feasible changes and baseline data concerning residents` knowledge of evidence based medicine (EBM) was collected using a questionnaire. Modifications were implemented and a second set of group discussions and data collection took place after 12 months.   RESULTS A total of 78 (86.7%) internal medicine residents participated. The most important identified changes were schedule adjustments and setting new goals regarding EBM, medical statistics and critical appraisal teaching. Group discussion showed increased satisfaction and questionnaire assessments showed significant improvement in residents' knowledge of EBM.   CONCLUSIONS Redesigning journal clubs with emphasis on regularity and setting new horizons basically improves their effectiveness. Assigning entire sessions to augment participants` skills in new areas of knowledge is a unique way to fit journal clubs as a novel and innovative teaching practice.
IMPORTANCE The value of integrated team delivery models is not firmly established.   OBJECTIVE To evaluate the association of receiving primary care in integrated team-based care (TBC) practices vs traditional practice management (TPM) practices (usual care) with patient outcomes, health care utilization, and costs.   DESIGN A retrospective, longitudinal, cohort study to assess the association of integrating physical and mental health over time in TBC practices with patient outcomes and costs.   SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS Adult patients (aged 18 years) who received primary care at 113 unique Intermountain Healthcare Medical Group primary care practices from 2003 through 2005 and had yearly encounters with Intermountain Healthcare through 2013, including some patients who received care in both TBC and TPM practices.   EXPOSURES Receipt of primary care in TBC practices compared with TPM practices for patients treated in internal medicine, family practice, and geriatrics practices.   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Outcomes included 7 quality measures, 6 health care utilization measures, payments to the delivery system, and program investment costs.   RESULTS During the study period (January 2010-December 2013), 113,452 unique patients (mean age, 56.1 years; women, 58.9%) accounted for 163,226 person-years of exposure in 27 TBC practices and 171,915 person-years in 75 TPM practices. Patients treated in TBC practices compared with those treated in TPM practices had higher rates of active depression screening (46.1% for TBC vs 24.1% for TPM; odds ratio [OR], 1.91 [95% CI, 1.75 to 2.08), adherence to a diabetes care bundle (24.6% for TBC vs 19.5% for TPM; OR, 1.26 [95% CI, 1.11 to 1.42]), and documentation of self-care plans (48.4% for TBC vs 8.7% for TPM; OR, 5.59 [95% CI, 4.27 to 7.33]), lower proportion of patients with controlled hypertension (<140/90 mm Hg) (85.0% for TBC vs 97.7% for TPM; OR, 0.87 [95% CI, 0.80 to 0.95]), and no significant differences in documentation of advanced directives (9.6% for TBC vs 9.9% for TPM; OR, 0.97 [95% CI, 0.91 to 1.03]). Per 100 person-years, rates of health care utilization were lower for TBC patients compared with TPM patients for emergency department visits (18.1 for TBC vs 23.5 for TPM; incidence rate ratio [IRR], 0.77 [95% CI, 0.74 to 0.80]), hospital admissions (9.5 for TBC vs 10.6 for TPM; IRR, 0.89 [95% CI, 0.85 to 0.94]), ambulatory care sensitive visits and admissions (3.3 for TBC vs 4.3 for TPM; IRR, 0.77 [95% CI, 0.70 to 0.85]), and primary care physician encounters (232.8 for TBC vs 250.4 for TPM; IRR, 0.93 [95% CI, 0.92 to 0.94]), with no significant difference in visits to urgent care facilities (55.7 for TBC vs 56.2 for TPM; IRR, 0.99 [95% CI, 0.97 to 1.02]) and visits to specialty care physicians (213.5 for TBC vs 217.9 for TPM; IRR, 0.98 [95% CI, 0.97 to 0.99], P>.008). Payments to the delivery system were lower in the TBC group vs the TPM group ($3400.62 for TBC vs $3515.71 for TPM; 棺, -$115.09 [95% CI, -$199.64 to -$30.54]) and were less than investment costs of the TBC program.   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Among adults enrolled in an integrated health care system, receipt of primary care at TBC practices compared with TPM practices was associated with higher rates of some measures of quality of care, lower rates for some measures of acute care utilization, and lower actual payments received by the delivery system.
BACKGROUND More than one-third of candidemia episodes occur in Internal Medicine Wards (IMWs) but only few studies have focused on this setting and specific data about epidemiology, clinical characteristics and risk factors for mortality are scant.   OBJECTIVE To describe epidemiology and to assess risk factors for in-hospital mortality among patients with candidemia in IMWs.   METHODS Multicenter retrospective cohort study on patients with candidemia cared for in IMWs of an Italian region (Emilia Romagna) from January 2012 to December 2013. Non survivors were compared with survivors; variables with p0.1 at univariate analysis were entered into a multivariate Cox regression model.   RESULTS 232 patients were included. Overall candidemia incidence was 2.2 cases/1000 admissions. Candida albicans accounted for 59% of cases. Antifungal treatment was started <24h, 24-72h, and >72h from blood cultures in 47%, 27% and 12% of patients, respectively; 13.8% of patients received no antifungal treatment. In-hospital mortality was 40%. At multivariate analysis, chronic-obstructive-pulmonary-disease (HR 2.72, 95%CI 1.66-4.45, p<0.001) and isolation of C. tropicalis (HR 2.18, 95%CI 1.19-3.99, p=0.01) were the independent risk factors for in-hospital mortality; central-venous-catheter removal (HR 0.59, 95%CI 0.36-0.96, p=0.03) and adequate and timely (within 72h from blood drawing) empirical therapy (HR 0.42, 95%CI 0.25-0.69, p=0.001) were protective factors.   CONCLUSIONS The present study conducted in a relatively large geographic area confirms high incidence and mortality of candidemia in IMWs, with a worrisome rate of inappropriateness in patient management. Specific interventions aimed to increase awareness of IMWs about candidemia are needed.
CONTEXT We developed, implemented and evaluated an evidence-based programme of feedback designed to address limitations identified in the current literature.   OBJECTIVES We sought to advance understanding about how and why feedback processes might be more effective in clinical education.   METHODS Three faculty members and nine first-year internal medicine residents participated in the pilot programme. To counter challenges identified in the literature, feedback was based on direct observation, grounded in longitudinal faculty-resident relationships, and devoid of summative assessment. We used a qualitative case study design to address three research questions: (i) What benefits did the participants describe? (ii) What elements of the programme facilitated these benefits? (iii) What were the limitations and challenges of the programme? Collected data included audiotapes of interactions between faculty members and residents, field notes written during observations, and semi-structured interviews and focus groups with resident participants. Data analysis moved cyclically and iteratively through inductive and deductive analysis.   RESULTS Residents described benefits relating to their ways of working (clinical skills), ways of learning (accountability for learning) and ways of feeling (emotional well-being). According to participants, specific elements of the programme that achieved these benefits included the direct observation of authentic clinical work, the longitudinal relationship with a faculty member and the emergence of feedback as a conversation between the faculty member and learner.   CONCLUSIONS We conclude that the conditions established within our pilot feedback programme influenced the learning culture for first-year internal medicine residents by grounding direct observation in authentic clinical work and setting the observations in the context of a longitudinal, non-assessment-based relationship between a faculty member and resident. These conditions appeared to influence residents' participation in the feedback process, their ways of approaching their daily clinical work, their emotional well-being and their engagement in their own learning.
BACKGROUND An increasingly large proportion of inpatient care is provided by hospitalists. The care discontinuities inherent to hospital medicine raise concerns about malpractice risk. However, little published data exist on the medical liability risks associated with care by hospitalists.   OBJECTIVE We sought to determine the risks and outcomes of malpractice claims against hospitalists in internal medicine.   DESIGN Retrospective observational analysis.   MEASUREMENTS Using claims data from a liability insurer-maintained database of over 52,000 malpractice claims, we measured the rates of malpractice claims against hospitalists compared to other physician specialties, types of allegations against hospitalists, contributing factors, and the severity of injury in and outcomes of these claims.   RESULTS Hospitalists had a malpractice claims rate of 0.52 claims per 100 physician coverage years (PCYs), which was significantly lower than that of nonhospitalist internal medicine physicians (1.91 claims per 100 PCYs), emergency medicine physicians (3.50 claims per 100 PCYs), general surgeons (4.70 claims per 100 PCYs), and obstetricians-gynecologists (5.56 claims per 100 PCYs) (P<0.001 for all comparisons). The most common allegation types made against hospitalists were for errors in medical treatment (41.5%) and diagnosis (36.0%). The most common contributing factors underlying claims were deficiencies in clinical judgment (54.4%) and communication (36.4%). Of the claims made against hospitalists, 50.4% involved the death of the patient.   CONCLUSIONS Despite fears of increased liability from the hospitalist model of care, hospitalists in internal medicine are subject to medical malpractice claims less frequently when compared to other internal medicine physicians and specialties.
BACKGROUND The effects of electronic health records (EHRs) on doctor-patient communication are unclear.   OBJECTIVE To evaluate the effects of EHR use compared with paper chart use, on novice physicians' communication skills.   DESIGN Within-subjects randomized controlled trial using observed structured clinical examination methods to assess the impact of use of an EHR on communication.   SETTING A large academic internal medicine training program.   POPULATION First-year internal medicine residents.   INTERVENTION Residents interviewed, diagnosed, and initiated treatment of simulated patients using a paper chart or an EHR on a laptop computer. Video recordings of interviews were rated by three trained observers using the Four Habits scale.   RESULTS Thirty-two residents completed the study and had data available for review (61.5% of those enrolled in the residency program). In most skill areas in the Four Habits model, residents performed at least as well using the EHR and were statistically better in six of 23 skills areas (p<0.05). The overall average communication score was better when using an EHR: mean difference 0.254 (95% CI 0.05 to 0.45), p = 0.012, Cohen's d of 0.47 (a moderate effect). Residents scoring poorly (>3 average score) with paper methods (n = 8) had clinically important improvement when using the EHR.   LIMITATIONS This study was conducted in first-year residents in a training environment using simulated patients at a single institution.   CONCLUSIONS Use of an EHR on a laptop computer appears to improve the ability of first-year residents to communicate with patients relative to using a paper chart.
OBJECTIVE To determine Internal Medicine residency program compliance with the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education 80% pass-rate standard and the correlation between residency program size and performance on the American Board of Internal Medicine Certifying Examination.   METHODS Using a cross-sectional study design from 2010-2012 American Board of Internal Medicine Certifying Examination data of all Internal Medicine residency pro-grams, comparisons were made between program pass rates to the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education pass-rate standard. To assess the correlation between program size and performance, a Spearman's rho was calculated. To evaluate program size and its relationship to the pass-rate standard, receiver operative characteristic curves were calculated.   RESULTS Of 372 Internal Medicine residency programs, 276 programs (74%) achieved a pass rate of =80%, surpassing the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education minimum standard. A weak correlation was found between residency program size and pass rate for the three-year period (p=0.19, p<0.001). The area underneath the receiver operative characteristic curve was 0.69 (95% Confidence Interval [0.63-0.75]), suggesting programs with less than 12 examinees/year are less likely to meet the minimum Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education pass-rate standard (sensitivity 63.8%, specificity 60.4%, positive predictive value 82.2%, p<0.001).   CONCLUSIONS Although a majority of Internal Medicine residency programs complied with Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education pass-rate standards, a quarter of the programs failed to meet this requirement. Program size is positively but weakly associated with American Board of Internal Medicine Certifying Examination performance, suggesting other unidentified variables significantly contribute to program performance.
BACKGROUND There is increasing interest in the use of information and communication technologies to improve how clinicians communicate in hospital settings.   METHODS We implemented a communication system with support for physician handover and secure messaging on 2 general internal medicine wards. We measured usage and surveyed physicians and nurses on perceptions of the system's effects on communication.   RESULTS Between May 2011 and August 2012, a clinical teaching team received, on average, 14.8 messages per day through the system. Messages were typically sent as urgent (69.1%) and requested a text reply (76.5%). For messages requesting a text reply, 8.6% did not receive a reply. For those messages that did receive a reply, the median response time was 2.3 minutes, and 84.5% of messages received a reply within 15 minutes. Of those who completed the survey, 95.3% were medical residents (82 of 86) and 81.7% were nurses (83 of 116). Medical trainees (82.8%) and nursing staff (78.3%) agreed or strongly agreed that the system helped to speed up their daily work tasks. Overall, 67.1% of the trainees and 73.2% of nurses agreed or strongly agreed that the system made them more accountable in their clinical roles. Only 35.8% of physicians and 26.3% of nurses agreed or strongly agreed that the system was useful for communicating complex issues.   CONCLUSIONS In summary, with a system designed to improve communication, we found that there was high uptake and that users perceived that the system improved efficiency and accountability but was not appropriate for communicating complex issues.
Effective communication is an important aspect of caring for the elderly, who are more likely to have multimorbidity, limited health literacy, and psychosocial barriers to care. About half of Internal Medicine (IM) trainees in the United States are foreign medical graduates, and may not have been exposed to prior communication skills education. This novel communication skills curriculum for IM interns aimed to increase trainees' confidence and use of specific communication tools with older adults, particularly in delivering bad news and conducting family meetings. The workshop consisted of two interactive sessions in a small group with two learners and one or two facilitators, during the 4-week geriatrics block in IM internship training year. Twenty-three IM interns at an urban Veterans Affairs Medical Center were surveyed at the beginning and at the end of the 4-week block and 3 months after completion of the workshop about their knowledge, confidence, and skill in communication and asked about challenges to effective communication with older adults. The primary outcome measure was change in self-reported confidence and behavior in communication at 4 weeks. On a 4-point Likert scale, there was average improvement of 0.70 in self-reported confidence in communication, which was sustained 3 months after completion of the workshop. Participants reported several patient, physician, and system barriers to effective communication. Communication skills education in a small-group setting and the opportunity for repeated practice and self-reflection resulted in a sustained increase in overall confidence in IM interns in communication with older adults and may help overcome certain patient- and physician-specific communication barriers.
PURPOSE To observe how residents are engaging in goals of care discussions with patients and identify thematic patterns that inhibited (barriers) and promoted discussion (facilitators) about goals of care.   DESIGN Admission encounters between residents and patients admitted to a tertiary care academic hospital were recorded and analysed using a qualitative descriptive method. Patients included in the study were individuals over the age of 65 being admitted to the internal medicine service. Residents were eligible if they were trainees in family medicine, emergency medicine, general surgery or internal medicine who were on call for the inpatient medicine rotation.   RESULTS A total of 15 resident-patient encounters were recorded and analysed, of which 12 encounters included a goals of care discussion. Barriers to goals of care discussions were due to missed opportunities to clarify patient's preferences for life-sustaining treatment and missed opportunities to engage the patient in further discussion. Facilitators to goals of care discussions were use of simple language and exploration of patient's previous experiences with life-sustaining treatment.   CONCLUSIONS Asking about patients' previous experiences with life support can be an effective strategy to gauge the patient's understanding and goals of care preferences. This knowledge can improve residents' skill in communicating with their patients about goals of care and inform future education initiatives.
BACKGROUND An increasing number of candidemia episodes has been reported in patients cared for in internal medicine wards. These usually older and frail patients may not be suspected as having candidemia because they lack fever at the onset of the episode. To identify the risk factors associated with the lack of fever at the onset of candidemia (ie, the collection of the first positive blood culture for Candida spp.) in patients cared for in internal medicine wards, we compared 2 group of patients with or without fever.   METHODS We retrospectively review data charts from 3 tertiary care, university hospitals in Italy, comparing patients with or without fever at onset of candidemia. Consecutive candidemic episodes in afebrile patients and matched febrile controls were identified during the 3-year study period. Patient baseline characteristics and several infection-related variables were examined. Random forest analysis was used, given the number of predictors to be considered and the potential complexity of their relations with the onset of fever.   RESULTS We identified 147 candidemic episodes without fever at onset and 147 febrile candidemia episodes. Factors associated with the lack of fever at onset of candidemia were diabetes, Clostridium difficile infection, and a shorter delta time from internal medicine wards admission to the onset of candidemia. The only variable associated with fever was the use of intravascular devices. Quite unexpectedly, antifungal therapy was administered more frequently to patients without fever, and no differences on 30-day mortality rate were documented in the 2 study groups.   CONCLUSIONS Clinicians should be aware that an increasing number of patients with invasive candidiasis cared for in internal medicine wards may lack fever at onset, especially those with diabetes and C.혻difficile infection. Candidemia should be suspected in patients with afebrile systemic inflammatory response syndrome or in worsening clinical condition: blood cultures should be taken, and a timely and appropriate antifungal therapy should be considered.
OBJECTIVE To assess recognition and management of inflammatory back pain (IBP) and spondyloarthritis (SpA) among non-rheumatologists (NRs) and rheumatologists in Thailand.   MATERIAL AND METHOD A cross-sectional survey was conducted among physicians in Thailand A questionnaire designed to evaluate knowledge regarding IBP and SpA was sent to 1,336 NRs. A different questionnaire regarding SpA management in practice was sent to 112 rheumatologists.   RESULTS Of 1,448 questionnaires distributed, 367 (25.3%) questionnaires were returned (NRs: 321 [24.0%] and included rheumatologists, 46 [41.1%]). Among NRs, 26.6%, 20.9%, and 9.4% recognized all features of IBP according to Calin, Assessment of SpondyloArthritis International Society, and Berlin criteria, respectively. In the presence of typical features of ankylosing spondylitis, 57.8% of NRs made the correct diagnosis. Regarding related clinical skills and involvement, 43.8%, 53.6%, and 37.3% of NRs lacked confidence in distinguishing IBP from mechanical back pain, performing musculoskeletal examination, and interpretation of plain radiography, respectively. Expensive biologic agents (31.2%) and advanced disease stage at diagnosis (27.1%) were the main problems reported by rheumatologists.   CONCLUSION Problems in diagnosis and management of SpA patients among NRs in Thailand included lack of knowledge and lack of associated clinical skills. Issues reported by rheumatologists centered on case management limitations. In order to improve overall quality of care for SpA patients, focused strategies should be implemented for both NRs and rheumatologists that consider the needs of patients, clinicians, and policy makers.
PURPOSE To assess senior internal medicine residents' experience of the implementation of a reduced duty hours model with night float, the transition from the prior 26-hour call system, and the new model's effects on resident quality of life and perceived patient safety in the emergency department and clinical teaching unit at McMaster University.   METHOD Qualitative data were collected during May 2013-July 2014, through resident focus groups held prior to implementation of a reduced duty hours model and 10 to 12 months postimplementation. Data analysis was guided by a constructivist grounded theory based in a relativist paradigm. Transcripts were coded; codes were collapsed into themes.   RESULTS Thematic analysis revealed five themes. Residents described reduced fatigue in the early morning, counterbalanced with worsened long-term fatigue on night float blocks; anticipation of negative impacts of the loss of distributed on-call experience and on-call shift volume; an urgency to sleep postcall in anticipation of consecutive night float shifts accompanied by conflicting role demands to stay postcall for care continuity; increased handover frequency accompanied by inaccurate/incomplete communication of patients' issues; and improvement in the senior resident experience on the clinical teaching unit, with increased ownership over patient care and improved relationships with junior housestaff.   CONCLUSIONS A reduced duty hours model with night float has potential to improve residents' perceived fatigue on call and care continuity on the clinical teaching unit. This must be weighed against increased handover frequency and loss of the postcall day, which may negatively affect patient care and resident quality of life.
PURPOSE Faculty development for clinical faculty who assess trainees is necessary to improve assessment quality and impor tant for competency-based education. Little is known about what faculty plan to do differently after training. This study explored the changes faculty intended to make after workplace-based assessment rater training, their ability to implement change, predictors of change, and barriers encountered.   METHOD In 2012, 45 outpatient internal medicine faculty preceptors (who supervised residents) from 26 institutions participated in rater training. They completed a commitment to change form listing up to five commitments and ranked (on a 1-5 scale) their motivation for and anticipated difficulty implementing each change. Three months later, participants were interviewed about their ability to implement change and barriers encountered. The authors used logistic regression to examine predictors of change.   RESULTS Of 191 total commitments, the most common commitments focused on what faculty would change about their own teaching (57%) and increasing direct observation (31%). Of the 183 commitments for which follow-up data were available, 39% were fully implemented, 40% were partially implemented, and 20% were not implemented. Lack of time/competing priorities was the most commonly cited barrier. Higher initial motivation (odds ratio [OR] 2.02; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.14, 3.57) predicted change. As anticipated difficulty increased, implementation became less likely (OR 0.67; 95% CI 0.49, 0.93).   CONCLUSIONS While higher baseline motivation predicted change, multiple system-level barriers undermined ability to implement change. Rater-training faculty development programs should address how faculty motivation and organizational barriers interact and influence ability to change.
BACKGROUND As residency programs move toward measuring milestones for competency-based education assessment, medical schools will need to collaborate with residencies to determine competencies for graduating students. The objective of this study is to define the educational milestones for fourth-year medical students during an Internal Medicine sub-internship.   METHODS A cross-sectional Internet-based survey (with attention to validity evidence) was developed in early 2013 and administered to Internal Medicine attendings and Internal Medicine sub-interns working on an inpatient team at 3 academic medical centers. With the purpose to determine the milestones for sub-interns, items asked respondents what responsibilities a sub-intern could be entrusted to perform without direct supervision.   RESULTS Faculty responded that behaviors sub-interns could perform with indirect supervision were mostly at the 'reporter' level, including completing a history and physical examination and collecting data such as test results. Other skills such as venipuncture and some communication skills such as calling consults, providing patient counseling, responding to pages, and creating discharge instructions were examples of tasks in which the majority of faculty felt that students were progressing toward unsupervised practice. Behaviors where the majority of faculty would always supervise a medical student performance included performance on the 'interpreter' level, including interpreting electrocardiograms, significant physical examination findings, and laboratory results. Medical students less commonly noted needing supervision on the majority of the items when compared with faculty.   CONCLUSION Tasks in the reporter domain such as taking a history, collecting medical records, and reporting results can be characterized as medical student milestones.
The human gut microbiota may be viewed as an organ, executing numerous functions in metabolism, development of the immune system and host defence against pathogens. It may therefore be involved in the development of a range of diseases such as gastrointestinal infections, inflammatory bowel disease, allergy and diabetes mellitus. Reversely, certain therapies that are often used, such as antibiotics and chemotherapy, may negatively affect the composition and function of the gut microbiota and thereby the wellbeing of patients. As the microbiota research field is currently moving from association studies to intervention studies and even clinical trials, implementation of this new knowledge into clinical practice is coming near. Several therapeutic interventions that target the gut microbiota are being evaluated, ranging from supplementation of food components to transplantation of faecal microbiota. In this review we provide an overview of current literature on the gut microbiota in both a healthy state and a range of diseases that are relevant for internal medicine. In anticipation of gut microbiota-targeted therapies, it is important to realise the key function of the gut microbiota in physiological processes and the collateral damage that may be caused when disrupting this ecosystem within us.
Context specificity and the impact that contextual factors have on the complex process of clinical reasoning is poorly understood. Using situated cognition as the theoretical framework, our aim was to evaluate the verbalized clinical reasoning processes of resident physicians in order to describe what impact the presence of contextual factors have on their clinical reasoning. Participants viewed three video recorded clinical encounters portraying straightforward diagnoses in internal medicine with select patient contextual factors modified. After watching each video recording, participants completed a think-aloud protocol. Transcripts from the think-aloud protocols were analyzed using a constant comparative approach. After iterative coding, utterances were analyzed for emergent themes with utterances grouped into categories, themes and subthemes. Ten residents participated in the study with saturation reached during analysis. Participants universally acknowledged the presence of contextual factors in the video recordings. Four categories emerged as a consequence of the contextual factors: (1) emotional reactions (2) behavioral inferences (3) optimizing the doctor patient relationship and (4) difficulty with closure of the clinical encounter. The presence of contextual factors may impact clinical reasoning performance in resident physicians. When confronted with the presence of contextual factors in a clinical scenario, residents experienced difficulty with closure of the encounter, exhibited as diagnostic uncertainty. This finding raises important questions about the relationship between contextual factors and clinical reasoning activities and how this relationship might influence the cost effectiveness of care. This study also provides insight into how the phenomena of context specificity may be explained using situated cognition theory.
OBJECTIVE Hospital mortality is a leading indicator of quality of healthcare and a valuable tool for planning and management. Infectious diseases represent a substantial part of the activity of internal medicine.Our aim was to describe the characteristics of in-hospital mortality due to infectious diseases and associated risk factors in our environment.   MATERIALS AND METHODS A retrospective case-control study was designed. We reviewed deaths during 2012 from an Internal Medicine Department. 187 cases (infectious disease related mortality) and 224 controls were found. Clinical and demographic information was obtained from medical records. Comorbidity was evaluated with Charlson index (CI). Data were analyzed using SPSS 15.0 (p-value < 0.05).   RESULTS During 2012, of the 3193 discharge, 187 were exitus due to infectious disease (5.8%). Mean age was 85.7 짹 7.6, higher in women (88 짹 7 vs 83 짹 7.4, p < 0.001), and 55% were aged over 85 years. The CI mean was 4.2 짹 3, higher in younger than 85 years (5.3 짹 3.4 vs 3.6 짹 2.6, p < 0.001). Most frequent causes of death were respiratory sepsis (29%), severe pneumonia (23.5%) and urinary sepsis (16.6%) and risk factors were living in Nursing Home (55.6% vs 34%, p < 0.001), being dependent (73.8% vs. 44.6%, p < 0.001), dementia (59.4% vs 27.2%, p < 0.001) and cerebrovascular disease (25.7% vs 17.4%, p = 0.041).   CONCLUSIONS Dementia, cerebrovascular disease, living in Nursing Home and being dependent were risk factors for infectious disease in-hospital mortality in our study, but not comorbidity, age or length of stay. Our series, although limited by retrospective design, is the first qualitative study of in-hospital mortality due to infectious disease in an Internal Medicine Service in our environment. Most frequent cause of death in our setting was respiratory etiology.
PURPOSE The purpose of this study was to calculate the projected primary care physician shortage, determine the amount and composition of residency growth needed, and estimate the impact of retirement age and panel size changes.   METHODS We used the 2010 National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey to calculate utilization of ambulatory primary care services and the US Census Bureau to project demographic changes. To determine the baseline number of primary care physicians and the number retiring at 66 years, we used the 2014 American Medical Association Masterfile. Using specialty board and American Osteopathic Association figures, we estimated the annual production of primary care residents. To calculate shortages, we subtracted the accumulated primary care physician production from the accumulated number of primary care physicians needed for each year from 2015 to 2035.   RESULTS More than 44,000 primary care physicians will be needed by 2035. Current primary care production rates will be unable to meet demand, resulting in a shortage in excess of 33,000 primary care physicians. Given current production, an additional 1,700 primary care residency slots will be necessary by 2035. A 10% reduction in the ratio of population per primary care physician would require more than 3,000 additional slots by 2035, whereas changing the expected retirement age from 66 years to 64 years would require more than 2,400 additional slots.   CONCLUSIONS To eliminate projected shortages in 2035, primary care residency production must increase by 21% compared with current production. Delivery models that shift toward smaller ratios of population to primary care physicians may substantially increase the shortage.
BACKGROUND To provide high-quality patient care, effective communication and interpersonal skills are necessary for physicians. A 360-degree evaluation of residents in the department of medicine was conducted to assess their interpersonal and communication skills. The measurement properties and utility of the multi-source ratings were investigated.   METHODS A cross-sectional assessment of a cohort of Internal Medicine residents was conducted at the Aga Khan Medical University in Pakistan. Every resident (n = 49) was evaluated by eight raters, including physicians, nurses and unit staff. Each resident also completed a self-evaluation. Evidence to support the validity of the ratings was gathered by exploring performance differences amongst more- and less-experienced providers. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was employed to test for differences in mean scores, both for rater type and experience (residency year). Generalizability theory was employed to estimate the reliability of the ratings.   RESULTS We received 367/441 (83.2%) completed forms. There was a significant effect attributable to rater source (F = 5.2, P < 0.01). There were no significant differences in mean scores for residents at different levels of training. The mean resident self-assessment scores were significantly lower than those provided by faculty (P < 0.01). Based on eight raters, the reliability of the ratings was moderate (2 = 0.39).   DISCUSSION The 360-degree evaluation technique can be used to measure the communication and interpersonal skills of residents. It can also provide important data to guide resident feedback. Health care providers and staff who interact with residents on regular basis can, as a group provide moderately consistent judgments of their abilities.
OBJECTIVE To evaluate the effect of program training atmosphere on the academic performance among internal medicine residents.   MATERIAL AND METHOD Data of satisfaction survey among internal medicine residents in academic year 2012, conducted by the Royal College of Physicians of Thailand, were retrieved. Association between training environment rating scores in three major aspects (program training structure, faculty nurturance, and support system) and board certifying examination scores, were then assessed.   RESULTS There were 12 training centers with 535 residents in that academic year. The mean satisfaction score for second-year residents was 77.1 짹 6.1, and the mean written examination score was 56.4 짹 4.6, with the modest correlation (r = 0.515, p = 0.087). For the third-year residents, the mean satisfaction score was 78.5 짹 6.5 and the mean clinical examination score was 71.1 짹 1.6, with no correlation (r = -0.004, p = 0.991). In the subgroup analysis in second-year residents, program training structure had strongest influence (r = 0.569, p = 0.053), as compared to faculty nurturance (r = 0.425, p = 0.169), andsupport system (r = 0.492, p = 0.104).   CONCLUSION Perception of positive training environment, especially the program training structure, may influence the performance of internal medicine residents in term of knowledge achievement as determined by written examination score. However, it has no effect in terms of clinical skill accomplishments, as determined by clinical examination scores.
BACKGROUND Annual epidemics of influenza viruses remain a substantial cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide particularly among vulnerable groups. Immunization is another way to reduce the infection and mortality rates, especially in high-risk groups; however the data concerning prescription rates and possible influencing factors on decisions associated with influenza prescription of Thai internal medicine residents were limited   OBJECTIVE Siriraj internal medicine residency training has provided outpatient continuum care practice for all 1st year residents since 2008. A part of the curriculum was to prepare each trainee to be an effective vaccinator. This study aims to examine the competency ofthose residents who had completed the training, particularly about prescribing influenza vaccine.   MATERIAL AND METHOD The authors retrospectively reviewed medical records of the patients that indicated need for influenza vaccine encountered by 2nd and 3rd year residents during June 2011 and May 2012. The 20-item questionnaire was also sent out in order to study possible factors associated on prescribing the vaccine.   RESULTS Three hundred and seventy-three medical records were included and reviewed. The prescription rate of influenza vaccine was 8.0 percent. Comparing vaccine receiving and non-receiving groups, the authors found having respiratory problems (26.7% vs. 4.4%; odds ratio 8.0 [3.0-20.8]; p < 0.001) and being self-paying (16.7% vs. 5.8%; odds ratio 3.2 [1.1-9.3]; p = 0.023) were the only two significant differences. Only 5.7 percent of total residents were an effective vaccinator One hundred and five residents returned the questionnaire. Residents who had further plans for fellowship trainings had reported a higher influenza vaccine prescription rate than those who will be general internists (45.2% vs. 8.1%; adjusted odds ratio 14.04 [1.6-125.8]; p = 0.018). The authors also found that the rate of vaccine recognition, general knowledge of vaccination, and vaccine coverage remained 61.9%, 29.5%, and 21.0% among medicine residents.   CONCLUSION Prescribing rate of influenza vaccine remained low due to multifactor aspects, including doctor capability, attitude, patient recognition as well as reimbursement issues. In order to improve the rate of influenza vaccine prescriptions, a system-designed approach would be needed.
OBJECTIVES To determine whether librarian and information specialist authorship was associated with better reported systematic review (SR) search quality.   STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING SRs from high-impact general internal medicine journals were reviewed for search quality characteristics and reporting quality by independent reviewers using three instruments, including a checklist of Institute of Medicine Recommended Standards for the Search Process and a scored modification of the Peer Review of Electronic Search Strategies instrument.   RESULTS The level of librarian and information specialist participation was significantly associated with search reproducibility from reported search strategies (鍋(2)혻=혻23.5; P혻<혻0.0001). Librarian co-authored SRs had significantly higher odds of meeting 8 of 13 analyzed search standards than those with no librarian participation and six more than those with mentioned librarian participation. One-way ANOVA showed that differences in total search quality scores between all three groups were statistically significant (F2,267혻=혻10.1233; P혻<혻0.0001).   CONCLUSION Problems remain with SR search quality and reporting. SRs with librarian or information specialist co-authors are correlated with significantly higher quality reported search strategies. To minimize bias in SRs, authors and editors could encourage librarian engagement in SRs including authorship as a potential way to help improve documentation of the search strategy.
PURPOSE Patients hospitalized in internal medicine often have unexplained clinical symptoms for which a drug origin can be considered. The prevalence of patients hospitalized for iatrogenic is estimated between 4-22%. We wanted to evaluate the diagnostic value of the regional center of pharmacovigilance to identify or confirm an iatrogenic disease in the department of internal medicine of Lille and characterize factors associated with drug-related side effect.   METHODS This is a single-center prospective diagnostic study. We included all subsequent requests from the department of internal medicine with the Nord-Pas-de-Calais regional pharmacovigilance center between 2010 and 2012. The opinion of the regional pharmacovigilance centre was held on the record of the adverse drug reaction in the national pharmacovigilance database and analyzed according to the conclusion of iatrogenic used by clinicians in internal medicine (reference diagnosis) with a follow-up to June 2013. The variables relating to the patient, medication and adverse events were analyzed by binary logistic regression.   RESULTS We analyzed 160 contacts: 118 concordant cases, 38 false-positives (drug-related side effect retained by the regional pharmacovigilance center only), 4 false negatives. Registration in the national pharmacovigilance database had a sensitivity of 96% (95% CI [0.92 to 0.99]), a specificity of 46% (95% CI [0.38 to 0.53]), a value positive predictive of 69% (95% CI [0.62 to 0.76]), a negative predictive value of 89% (95% CI [0.84 to 0.94]) and a negative likelihood ratio of 0.1. False-positive had chronological and semiological accountabilities questionable (adjusted RR=2.1, 95% CI [1.2 to 2.8]).   CONCLUSION In our study, the regional pharmacovigilance center confirms the clinician's suspicion of drug-related side effects and helps to exclude drug-induced with a high negative predictive value.
THEORY Clerkship evaluation and grading practices vary widely between U.S. medical schools. Grade inflation continues to exist, and grade distribution is likely to be different among U.S. medical schools.   HYPOTHESES Increasing the number of available grades curtails 'grade inflation.'   METHOD A national survey of all Clerkship Directors in Internal Medicine members was administered in 2011. The authors assessed key aspects of grading.   RESULTS Response rate was 76%. Among clerkship directors (CDs), 61% of respondents agreed that grade inflation existed in the internal medicine clerkship at their school, and 43% believed that it helped students obtain better residency positions. With respect to grading practices, 79% of CDs define specific behaviors needed to achieve each grade, and 36% specify an ideal grade distribution. In addition, 44% have a trained core faculty responsible for evaluating students, 35% describe formal grading meetings, and 39% use the Reporter-Interpreter-Manager-Educator (RIME) scheme. Grading scales were described as follows: 4% utilize a pass/fail system, 13% a 3-tier (e.g., Honors/Pass/Fail), 45% 4-tier, 35% 5-tier, and 4% 6+-tier system. There was a trend to higher grades with more tiers available.   CONCLUSIONS Grade inflation continues in the internal medicine clerkship. Almost half of CDs feel that this practice assists students to obtain better residency positions. A minority of programs have a trained core faculty who are responsible for evaluation. About one third have formal grading meetings and use the RIME system; both have been associated with more robust and balanced grading practices. In particular, there is a wide variation between schools in the percentage of students who are awarded the highest grade, which has implications for residency applications. Downstream users of clinical clerkship grades must be fully aware of these variations in grading in order to appropriately judge medical student performance.
PROBLEM The Association of Program Directors in Internal Medicine, the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, the Alliance for Academic Internal Medicine, and the Carnegie Foundation report on medical education recommend creating individualized learning pathways during medical training so that learners can experience broader professional roles beyond patient care. Little data exist to support the success of these specialized pathways in graduate medical education.   INTERVENTION We present the 10-year experience of the Primary Care Medicine Education (PRIME) track, a clinical-outcomes research pathway for internal medicine residents at the University of California San Francisco (UCSF). We hypothesized that participation in an individualized learning track, PRIME, would lead to a greater likelihood of publishing research from residency and accessing adequate career mentorship and would be influential on subsequent alumni careers.   CONTEXT We performed a cross-sectional survey of internal medicine residency alumni from UCSF who graduated in 2001 through 2010. We compared responses of PRIME and non-PRIME categorical alumni. We used Pearson's chi-square and Student's t test to compare PRIME and non-PRIME alumni on categorical and continuous variables.   OUTCOME Sixty-six percent (211/319) of alumni responded to the survey. A higher percentage of PRIME alumni published residency research projects compared to non-PRIME alumni (64% vs. 40%; p = .002). The number of PRIME alumni identifying research as their primary career role was not significantly different from non-PRIME internal medicine residency graduates (35% of PRIME vs. 29% non-PRIME). Process measures that could explain these findings include adequate access to mentors (M 4.4 for PRIME vs. 3.6 for non-PRIME alumni, p < .001, on a 5-point Likert scale) and agreeing that mentoring relationships affected career choice (M 4.2 for PRIME vs. 3.7 for categorical alumni, p = .001). Finally, 63% of PRIME alumni agreed that their research experience during residency influenced their subsequent career choice versus 46% of non-PRIME alumni (p = .023).   LESSONS LEARNED Our results support the concept that providing residents with an individualized learning pathway focusing on clinical outcomes research during residency enables them to successfully publish manuscripts and access mentorship, and may influence subsequent career choice. Implementation of individualized residency program tracks that nurture academic interests along with clinical skills can support career development within medicine residency programs.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES If medical schools are to produce primary care physicians (family medicine, pediatrics, or general internal medicine), they must provide educational experiences that enable medical students to maintain existing or form new interests in such careers. This study examined three mechanisms for doing so, at one medical school: participation as an officer in a family medicine interest group (FMIG), completion of a dual medical/public health (MD/MPH) degree program, and participation in a rural medical education (RMED) clinical track.   METHODS Specialty Match data for students who graduated from the study institution between 2006 and 2015 were included as dependent variables in bivariate analysis (c2) and logistic regression models, examining FMIG, MD/MPH, and RMED participation as independent predictors of specialty choice (family medicine yes/no, or any primary care (PC) yes/no), controlling for student demographic data.   RESULTS In bivariate c2 analyses, FMIG officership did not significantly predict matching with family medicine or any PC; RMED and MD/MPH education were significant predictors of both family medicine and PC. Binary logistic regression analyses replicated the bivariate findings, controlling for student demographics.   CONCLUSIONS Dual MD/MPH and rural medical education had stronger effects in producing primary care physicians than participation in a FMIG as an officer, at one institution. Further study at multiple institutions is warranted.
BACKGROUND High-quality assessment of resident performance is needed to guide individual residents' development and ensure their preparedness to provide patient care. To facilitate this aim, reporting milestones are now required across all internal medicine (IM) residency programs.   OBJECTIVE To describe initial milestone ratings for the population of IM residents by IM residency programs.   DESIGN Cross-sectional study.   SETTING IM residency programs.   PARTICIPANTS All IM residents whose residency program directors submitted milestone data at the end of the 2013-2014 academic year.   MEASUREMENTS Ratings addressed 6 competencies and 22 subcompetencies. A rating of 'not assessable' indicated insufficient information to evaluate the given subcompetency. Descriptive statistics were calculated to describe ratings across competencies and training years.   RESULTS Data were available for all 21혻774 U.S. IM residents from all 383 programs. Overall, 2889 residents (1621 in postgraduate year 1 [PGY-1], 902 in PGY-2, and 366 in PGY-3) had at least 1 subcompetency rated as not assessable. Summaries of average ratings by competency and training year showed higher ratings for PGY-3 residents in all competencies. Overall ratings for each of the 6 individual competencies showed that fewer than 1% of third-year residents were rated as 'unsatisfactory' or 'conditional on improvement.' However, when subcompetency milestone ratings were used, 861 residents (12.8%) who successfully completed training had at least 1 competency with all corresponding subcompetencies graded below the threshold of 'readiness for unsupervised practice.'   LIMITATION Data were derived from a point in time in the first reporting period in which milestones were used.   CONCLUSION The initial milestone-based evaluations of IM residents nationally suggest that documenting developmental progression of competency is possible over training years. Subcompetencies may identify areas in which residents might benefit from additional feedback and experience. Future work is needed to explore how milestones are used to support residents' development and enhance residency curricula.   PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE None.
BACKGROUND Internal Medicine residents experience conflict between inpatient and outpatient medicine responsibilities. Outpatient 'between visit' responsibilities such as reviewing lab and imaging data, responding to medication refill requests and replying to patient inquiries compete for time and attention with inpatient duties. By examining Electronic Health Record (EHR) audits, our study quantitatively describes this balance between competing responsibilities, focusing on housestaff participation with 'between visit' outpatient responsibilities.   METHODS We examined EHR log-in data from 2012-2013 for 41 residents (R1 to R3) assigned to a large academic center's continuity clinic. From the EHR log-in data, we examined housestaff compliance with 'between visit' tasks, based on official clinic standards. We used generalized estimating equations to evaluate housestaff compliance with between visit tasks and amount of time spent on tasks. We examined the relationship between compliance with between visit tasks and resident year of training, rotation type (elective or required) and interest in primary care.   RESULTS Housestaff compliance with logging in to complete 'between visit' tasks varied significantly depending on rotation, with overall compliance of 45% during core inpatient rotations compared to 68% during electives (p = 0.01). Compliance did not significantly vary by interest in primary care or training level. Once logged in, housestaff spent a mean 53 min per week logged in while on electives, compared to 55 min on required rotations (p = 0.90).   CONCLUSIONS Our study quantitatively highlights the difficulty of attending to outpatient responsibilities during busy core inpatient rotations, which comprise the bulk of residency at our institution and at others. Our results reinforce the need to continue development and study of innovative systems for coverage of 'between visit' responsibilities, including shared coverage models among multiple residents and shared coverage models between residents and clinic attendings, both of which require a balance between clinic efficiency and resident ownership, autonomy and learning.
The care of elderly patients will continue to challenge the healthcare system over the next decades. As a rule geriatric patients suffer from multimorbidities with complex disease patterns, and the ability to cope with everyday life is severely reduced. Treatment is provided by a multiprofessional geriatric team, and the primary goal is improvement of functional status, quality of life in the social environment and autonomy by employing a holistic approach. In Germany geriatric care is provided by physicians from various medical specialties (e.g. general practitioners, internists, neurologists and psychiatrists). In the training for the subspecialty clinical geriatrics, these specialties enjoy equal rights. Recent efforts to establish a qualification as physician for internal medicine and geriatrics have initiated a discussion to make the suitability for qualification as a geriatrician dependent on the medical specialty. Geriatric patients benefit from multidisciplinary cooperation. Neurologists possess great expertise in the treatment of patients with dementia, depression, delirium, consequences of degenerative spinal cord diseases and vertebral bone fractures, stroke, Parkinson's syndrome, epileptic seizures, vertigo and dizziness, neuropathies, lesions of peripheral nerves and in the multimodal therapy of pain. To function in a position of responsibility in a geriatric department, neurologists need skills in general internal medicine. These are acquired either on a geriatric ward or during specialization as a neurologist by full time secondment to large neurological or interdisciplinary intensive care units.
Background괦ublished clinical problem solving exercises have emerged as a common tool to illustrate aspects of the clinical reasoning process. The specific clinical reasoning terms mentioned in such exercises is unknown. Objective괰e identified which clinical reasoning terms are mentioned in published clinical problem solving exercises and compared them to clinical reasoning terms given high priority by clinician educators. Methods괔 convenience sample of clinician educators prioritized a list of clinical reasoning terms (whether to include, weight percentage of top 20 terms). The authors then electronically searched the terms in the text of published reports of 4 internal medicine journals between January 2010 and May 2013. Results괫he top 5 clinical reasoning terms ranked by educators were dual-process thinking (weight percentage=24%), problem representation (12%), illness scripts (9%), hypothesis generation (7%), and problem categorization (7%). The top clinical reasoning terms mentioned in the text of 79 published reports were context specificity (n=20, 25%), bias (n=13, 17%), dual-process thinking (n=11, 14%), illness scripts (n=11, 14%), and problem representation (n=10, 13%). Context specificity and bias were not ranked highly by educators. Conclusions괪ome core concepts of modern clinical reasoning theory ranked highly by educators are mentioned explicitly in published clinical problem solving exercises. However, some highly ranked terms were not used, and some terms used were not ranked by the clinician educators. Effort to teach clinical reasoning to trainees may benefit from a common nomenclature of clinical reasoning terms.
Background괞ncreasing demands on residents' time have made it critically important to maximize the effectiveness of didactic activities and motivate independent study. Objective괥ur aim was to correlate characteristics of noon conferences with internal medicine (IM) residents' ratings of perceived effectiveness and intent to pursue independent reading. Methods괰e assessed characteristics of each noon conference by direct observation using predetermined metrics. We surveyed IM residents to assess their perception of the conference's effectiveness and their intention to pursue additional reading. A variety of modeling techniques were used to discern meaningful correlations of effectiveness and motivation. Results괔 total of 649 evaluations of 29 conferences were submitted by 153 of 185 (83%) residents in the program. Median effectiveness score was 6 (on a scale of 1 to 7). Clinicopathological conferences had 0.55-point higher effectiveness scores than traditional conferences (P = .011). In multivariable analyses focusing on traditional conferences, summary statement inclusion was significantly associated with 0.43-point higher effectiveness scores (P = .016), and having resident speakers was associated with 0.50-point higher effectiveness scores than unfamiliar faculty (P = .045). Conferences with higher effectiveness scores had significantly higher proportions of respondents indicating intention to read. Conclusions괫his is the first study to quantitatively assess correlations of high effectiveness ratings of noon conferences in a residency program. Intention to read improved with increasing effectiveness scores of conferences, suggesting residents are more inclined to pursue self-directed learning when topics are well presented. Considering these attributes in designs of didactic sessions may enhance their educational value.
Background괫he patient-centered medical home (PCMH) provides a setting to enhance resident training in systems-based practice. Few studies have addressed the impact of PCMHs on resident knowledge and confidence. Objective괫he goal of this study was to evaluate resident knowledge, confidence, behavior, and patient outcomes in a PCMH. Methods괥ur curriculum emphasized patient panel report card interpretation, a telephone medicine curriculum, and interdisciplinary team-based care of chronic medical conditions. We measured resident satisfaction, knowledge, and confidence. Patient outcomes included hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) and blood pressures. Prescores and postscores were compared using paired t tests for continuous measures and McNemar's test for binary measures. Results괔 total of 154 residents were eligible for the curriculum. All residents participated in the curriculum, though not all residents completed the evaluation. Completion rates for paired pre-post knowledge and confidence surveys were 38% and 37%, respectively. Nearly 80% (69 of 87) of residents indicated that the curriculum was above average or outstanding. Our evaluation revealed very small immediate improvements in knowledge and confidence. No significant improvement in patients' HbA1cs or blood pressures occurred after the curriculum. Conclusions괙xplicit training to work in a PCMH was feasible and resulted in high levels of resident satisfaction and immediate small improvements in knowledge and confidence.
Background괰ith the widespread adoption of electronic health records (EHRs), there is a growing awareness of problems in EHR training for new users and subsequent problems with the quality of information present in EHR-generated progress notes. By standardizing the case, simulation allows for the discovery of EHR patterns of use as well as a modality to aid in EHR training. Objective괫o develop a high-fidelity EHR training exercise for internal medicine interns to understand patterns of EHR utilization in the generation of daily progress notes. Methods괫hree months after beginning their internship, 32 interns participated in an EHR simulation designed to assess patterns in note writing and generation. Each intern was given a simulated chart and instructed to create a daily progress note. Notes were graded for use of copy-paste, macros, and accuracy of presented data. Results괔 total of 31 out of 32 interns (97%) completed the exercise. There was wide variance in use of macros to populate data, with multiple macro types used for the same data category. Three-quarters of notes contained either copy-paste elements or the elimination of active medical problems from the prior days' notes. This was associated with a significant number of quality issues, including failure to recognize a lack of deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis, medications stopped on admission, and issues in prior discharge summary. Conclusions괞nterns displayed wide variation in the process of creating progress notes. Additional studies are being conducted to determine the impact EHR-based simulation has on standardization of note content.
Background괕urnout is common in internal medicine (IM) trainees and is associated with depression and suboptimal patient care. Facilitated group discussion reduces burnout among practicing clinicians. Objective괰e hypothesized that this type of intervention would reduce incident burnout among first-year IM residents. Methods괕etween June 2013 and May 2014, participants from a convenience sample of 51 incoming IM residents were randomly assigned (in groups of 3) to the intervention or a control. Twice-monthly theme-based discussion sessions (18 total) led by expert facilitators were held for intervention groups. Surveys were administered at study onset and completion. Demographic and personal characteristics were collected. Burnout and burnout domains were the primary outcomes. Following convention, we defined burnout as a high emotional exhaustion or depersonalization score on the Maslach Burnout Inventory. Results괔ll 51 eligible residents participated; 39 (76%) completed both surveys. Initial burnout prevalence (10 of 21 [48%] versus 7 of 17 [41%], P = .69), incidence of burnout at year end (9 of 11 [82%] versus 5 of 10 [50%], P = .18), and secondary outcomes were similar in intervention and control arms. More residents in the intervention group had high year-end depersonalization scores (18 of 21 [86%] versus 9 of 17 [53%], P = .04). Many intervention residents revealed that sessions did not truly free them from clinical or educational responsibilities. Conclusions괔 facilitated group discussion intervention did not decrease burnout in resident physicians. Future discussion-based interventions for reducing resident burnout should be voluntary and effectively free participants from clinical duties.
Artifacts in ultrasonographic diagnostics are a result of the physical properties of the ultrasound waves and are caused by interaction of the ultrasound waves with biological structures and tissues and with foreign bodies. On the one hand, they may be distracting and may lead to misdiagnosis. On the other hand, they may be diagnostically helpful. Ultrasound imaging suffers from artifacts, because in reality, parameters assumed to be constant values, such as sound speed, sound rectilinear propagation, attenuation, etc., are often different from the actual parameters. Moreover, inadequate device settings may cause artifacts. Profound knowledge of the causes, avoidance, and interpretation of artifacts is a necessary precondition for correct clinical appraisal of ultrasound images. Part 1 of this review comments on the physics of artifacts and describes the most important B-mode artifacts. Pitfalls, as well as diagnostic chances resulting from B-mode artifacts, are discussed.