Several organizations have published guidelines for the neuropsychological care of survivors of childhood cancer. However, there is limited consensus in how these guidelines are applied. The model of neuropsychology service delivery is further complicated by the variable terminology used to describe recommended services. In an important first step to translate published guidelines into clinical practice, this paper proposes definitions for specific neuropsychological processes and services, with the goal of facilitating consistency across sites to foster future clinical program development and to clarify clinical practice guidelines.
Following a radiation emergency, children may be internally contaminated by the radionuclide(s) involved. Timely assessment of the contamination informs the need for medical treatment for those persons who had significant intakes and reassures those whose intakes are not a medical concern. In vitro bioassay reference values for children of all ICRP age groups are derived for 30 contamination scenario/radionuclide combinations involving 13 radionuclides. These bioassay values are derived from an intake that leads to a 70-y committed effective dose of 50 mSv or a 30-d RBE-weighted absorbed dose to the lungs of 0.2 Gy-Eq, depending on which criterion is more strict. These values are presented in a collection of lookup tables that can be used directly as references.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE Patient safety events are underreported by physicians. Baseline data demonstrated that physicians submitted 3% of event reports at Our Lady of the Lake Children's Hospital. Our aim was to increase the proportion of safety reports filed by residents and faculty to 6% of all reports within a 9-month period.   METHODS We used the Model for Improvement and serial Plan, Do, Study, Act cycles to test interventions we hypothesized would improve physician recognition and reporting of patient safety events. We tracked the percentage of Our Lady of the Lake Children's Hospital event reports entered by residents or faculty over time as the primary outcome measure. Changes to teaching team processes included 'patient safety rounds' prompted by text messages, an inpatient 'superintendent' rotation with core patient safety responsibilities, and a 'just-in-time' faculty development program called 'QI on the Fly.'   RESULTS Physician-reported events increased to a monthly average of 24% of all events reported, an improvement that has been sustained over 17 months. Resident reporting accounted for most of the increase in physician reports. Increased physician reporting was temporally associated with implementation of the 'superintendent' rotation. The total number of events reported increased as a result of increased physician reporting.   CONCLUSIONS Incorporating patient safety responsibilities into a teaching team's workflow can increase physician safety event reporting. We plan additional Plan, Do, Study, Act cycles to spread this approach to other clinical settings and investigate the impact increased reporting might have on patient care.
BACKGROUND The management of pediatric chronic rhinosinusitis (PCRS) is evolving.   OBJECTIVE To assess current practice patterns of members of the American Rhinologic Society (ARS) in managing PCRS.   METHODS A 27-item Web-based survey on treatment of PCRS was electronically distributed to the ARS membership.   RESULTS The survey was completed by 67 members, 40% of whom had completed a rhinology fellowship. The most frequently used medical therapies as part of initial treatment for PCRS were nasal saline solution irrigation, (90%), topical nasal steroids (93%), oral antibiotics (52%), and oral steroids (20%). For initial surgical therapy, 90% performed adenoidectomy; in addition, 31% also performed sinus lavage, 17% performed balloon catheter dilation (BCD), and 17% performed endoscopic sinus surgery (ESS). Sixty percent performed adenoidectomy before obtaining computed tomography imaging. When initial surgical treatment failed, 85% performed traditional ESS. In patients with pansinusitis, 50% of the respondents performed frontal sinusotomy and 70% performed sphenoidotomy. BCD was not frequently used; overall, 66% never or rarely used it, 20% sometimes used it, 12% usually used it, and 3% always or almost always used BCD.   CONCLUSIONS Most aspects of PCRS management among ARS members were aligned with published consensus statements. Adenoidectomy was almost always included as part of first-line surgical treatment but was also combined with adjunctive surgical procedures with moderate frequency. ESS was performed by a minority of rhinologists as a primary procedure for medically refractory PCRS but was favored when previous surgery failed. BCD was uncommonly used in PCRS.
INTRODUCTION Many drugs are unavailable in suitable oral paediatric dosage forms, and pharmacists often have to compound drugs to provide paediatric patients with an acceptable formulation in the right dose. Liquid formulations offer the advantage of dosing flexibility and ease of administration to young patients, but drug substances often show poor aqueous solubility. The objective of this work was to study different solvents and matrices to design a liquid formulation for poorly water soluble drugs, using lorazepam as model drug.   METHODS Three different formulation strategies were explored to improve the solubility. Firstly, water-soluble organic solvents were used to improve the aqueous solubility directly, secondly, ionic surfactants were used to solubilise the model drug, and thirdly, complexation of lorazepam with cyclodextrin was studied. Specific attention was paid to excipients, adequate taste correction and palatability. For the final formulation, physical and chemical stability and microbiological quality were assessed for 12months.   RESULTS An organic solvent based formulation, containing a mixture of polyethylene glycol and glycerol 85%, with a minimum amount of propylene glycol, proved to be physically and chemically stable. Development of the non-ionic surfactants formulation was discontinued due to taste problems. The cyclodextrin formulations were physically stable, but lorazepam content declined to 90% within five months. The final formulation contained in volume concentration (%v/v) 87% glycerol, 10% polyethylene glycol 400 and 3% propylene glycol. Orange essence was the preferred taste corrector. The formulation remained stable for 12months at 4째C, with lorazepam content remaining >95%. Related substances increased during the study period but remained below 2%. In-use stability was proven up to 4weeks.   CONCLUSION An organic solvent based oral formulation was shown to be superior to a non-ionic surfactant based formulation or a cyclodextrin formulation. These results may help to formulate paediatric formulations of other poorly water soluble drugs, to aid pharmacy compounding.
Genetic conditions are individually rare but are common in aggregate, and they often present in the neonatal and early pediatric periods. These conditions are often severe, can be difficult to diagnose and manage, and may heavily affect patients, families, health care systems, and society. Because of recent technological advances, the availability and uptake of genetic and genomic testing are increasing rapidly. However, there is a dearth of trained geneticists and genetic counselors to help guide and explain these conditions and relevant tests. To help hospitalists, neonatologists, and related practitioners navigate this complex and evolving field, we have compiled a list of free (mostly Web-based) resources relevant to the diagnosis and management of genetic conditions and related disorders. These resources, which we describe individually, can be useful for nongeneticist clinicians, and some also include material that can be used to explain concepts and conditions to patients or families. The resources presented are divided into the following categories (which overlap): general information, databases of genetic conditions, resources that can help generate differential diagnoses, databases of genetic testing laboratories (to help with logistics of ordering tests), information on newborn screening, and other resources. We also include a separate list of helpful textbooks and manuals. We conclude with 2 examples describing how some of these resources would be used by a pediatric hospitalist or neonatologist during the inpatient management of a child with a suspected genetic condition.
Professionals committed to optimal medical care of children recognize the need to increase future availability of thoroughly validated medicinal treatments. This will only be achieved through expanded efforts of pediatric clinical pharmacologists and clinical pharmacists equipped with the necessary skills in relevant research and educational methods. Recent research has demonstrated a shortfall in the human resource pool, particularly in low- and lower-middle-income countries where a majority of children under 14 years of age reside.
OBJECTIVE The authors previously demonstrated the use of a validated Objective Structured Assessment of Technical Skills (OSATS) tool for evaluating residents' operative skills in pediatric neurosurgery. However, no benchmarks have been established for specific pediatric procedures despite an increased need for meaningful assessments that can either allow for early intervention for underperforming trainees or allow for proficient residents to progress to conducting operations independently with more passive supervision. This validated methodology and tool for assessment of operative skills for common pediatric neurosurgical procedures-external ventricular drain (EVD) placement and shunt surgery- was applied to establish its procedure-based feasibility and reliability, and to document the effect of repetition on achieving surgical skill proficiency in pediatric EVD placement and shunt surgery. METHODS A procedure-based technical skills assessment for EVD placements and shunt surgeries in pediatric neurosurgery was established through the use of task analysis. The authors enrolled all residents from 3 training programs (Baylor College of Medicine, Houston Methodist Hospital, and University of Texas-Medical Branch) who rotated through pediatric neurosurgery at Texas Children's Hospital over a 26-month period. For each EVD placement or shunt procedure performed with a resident, the faculty and resident (for self-assessment) completed an evaluation form (OSATS) based on a 5-point Likert scale with 7 categories. Data forms were then grouped according to faculty versus resident (self) assessment, length of pediatric neurosurgery rotation, postgraduate year level, and date of evaluation ('beginning of rotation,' within 1 month of start date; 'end of rotation,' within 1 month of completion date; or 'middle of rotation'). Descriptive statistical analyses were performed with the commercially available SPSS statistical software package. A p value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. RESULTS Five attending evaluators (including 2 fellows who acted as attending surgeons) completed 260 evaluations. Twenty house staff completed 269 evaluations for self-assessment. Evaluations were completed in 562 EVD and shunt procedures before the surgeons left the operating room. There were statistically significant differences (p < 0.05) between overall attending (mean 4.3) and junior resident (self; mean 3.6) assessments, and between overall attending (mean 4.8) and senior resident (self; mean 4.6) assessment scores on general performance and technical skills. The learning curves produced for the residents demonstrate a stereotypical U- or V-shaped curve for acquiring skills, with a significant improvement in overall scores at the end of the rotation compared with the beginning. The improvement for junior residents ( score = 0.5; p = 0.002) was larger than for senior residents ( score = 0.2; p = 0.018). CONCLUSIONS The OSATS is an effective assessment tool as part of a comprehensive evaluation of neurosurgery residents' performance for specific pediatric procedures. The authors observed a U-shaped learning curve, contradicting the idea that developing one's surgical technique and learning a procedure represents a monotonic, cumulative process of repetitions and improvement.
Sarcoma is a type of cancer affecting connective, supportive, or soft tissue of mesenchymal origin. Despite rare incidence in adults (<1%), over 15% of pediatric cancers are sarcoma. Sadly, both adults and children with relapsed or metastatic disease have devastatingly high rates of mortality. Current treatment options for sarcoma include surgery, radiation, and/or chemotherapy; however, significant limitations exist with respect to the efficacy of these strategies. Strong impetus has been placed on the development of novel therapies and preclinical models for uncovering mechanisms involved in the development, progression, and therapy resistance of sarcoma. Over the past 15혻years, the zebrafish has emerged as a powerful genetic model of human cancer. High genetic conservation when combined with a unique susceptibility to develop sarcoma has made the zebrafish an effective tool for studying these diseases. Transgenic and gene-activation strategies have been employed to develop zebrafish models of rhabdomyosarcoma, malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors, Ewing's sarcoma, chordoma, hemangiosarcoma, and liposarcoma. These models all display remarkable molecular and histopathological conservation with their human cancer counterparts and have offered excellent platforms for understanding disease progression in vivo. Short tumor latency and the amenability of zebrafish for ex vivo manipulation, live imaging studies, and tumor cell transplantation have allowed for efficient study of sarcoma initiation, growth, self-renewal, and maintenance. When coupled with facile chemical genetic approaches, zebrafish models of sarcoma have provided a strong translational tool to uncover novel drug pathways and new therapeutic strategies.
INTRODUCTION Although pediatric emergence delirium (ED) is common, preventive and therapeutic pharmacological treatment is the matter of an international controversial discussion and evidence on different options is partially vague.   OBJECTIVE We therefore examined clinical routine in prevention strategies and postoperative therapy of ED with respect to clinical experience in pediatric anesthesia.   METHODS A web-based survey was developed investigating routine management (prevention and treatment) of ED, facility structure, and patient population. The link was sent to all enlisted members of the German Society of Anesthesiology.   RESULTS We analyzed 1229 questionnaires. Overall, 88% reported ED as a relevant clinical problem; however, only 5% applied assessment scores to define ED. Oral midazolam was reported as standard premedication by 84% of respondents, the second largest group was 'no premedication' (5%). The first choice prevention strategy was to perform total intravenous (propofol) anesthesia (63%). The first choice therapeutic pharmacological treatment depended on clinical experience. Therapeutic propofol was preferentially chosen by more experienced anesthesiologists (5 to >20 patients per week, n혻=혻538), while lesser experienced colleagues (<5 patients per week, n혻=혻676) preferentially applied opioids. Dexmedetomidine (1%) and non-pharmacological (2%) therapy were rarely stated. The highest satisfaction levels for pharmacological therapy of ED were attributed to propofol.   CONCLUSIONS Propofol is the preferred choice for pharmacological prevention and treatment of ED among German anesthesiologists. Further therapy options as well as alternatives to a midazolam-centered premedication procedure are underrepresented.
The history of Japanese Society of Pediatric Surgoens (JSPS), Asian Association of Pediatric Surgeons (AAPS), World Federation of Associations of Pediatric Srugeons (WOFAPS) and International Pediatric Endosurgery Group (IPEG) was presented focusing on a brilliant pediatric surgeon, Dr Keijiro Suruga, who contributed to all these associations as one of the leading founding members.
BACKGROUND/AIM Although international guidelines in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) management are currently available, variations in IBD care still exist. The aim of this study was to determine the extent of the variation in IBD care among Saudi pediatric gastroenterologists.   MATERIALS AND METHODS A cross-sectional survey was conducted among all pediatric gastroenterologists who were members of the Saudi Society of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition (SASPGHAN) from August 2015 to December 2015. The questionnaire included items on demographic characteristics and utilization of different diagnostic and therapeutic interventions in IBD care.   RESULTS Of the 45 registered pediatric gastroenterologists surveyed, 37 (82%) returned the survey from 20 centers across the country; 75.7% were practicing in tertiary care centers. There was a considerable variation in the use of different diagnostic tests during the initial evaluation of the disease. Utilization of calprotectin assays, magnetic resonance imaging enterography, and bone densitometry seemed to vary the most between physicians practicing at tertiary and secondary care centers. There were statistically significant differences in the prescription of biological therapy between the two groups.   CONCLUSIONS We found a considerable variation in the use of different diagnostic and therapeutic interventions in the management of pediatric IBD patients. Such variations could lead to unintended differences in patient outcomes. Implementation of the available evidence-based guidelines may limit such variations and ultimately could improve the quality of IBD care provided.
The emergency department (ED) is an environment that is conducive to medical errors. The ED is a time-pressured environment where physicians aim to rapidly evaluate and treat patients. Quick thinking and problem-based solutions are often used to assist in evaluation and diagnosis. Error analysis leads to an understanding of the cause of a medical error and is important to prevent future errors. Research suggests mechanisms to prevent medical errors in the pediatric ED, but prevention is not always possible. Transparency about errors is necessary to assure a trusting doctor-patient relationship. Patients want to be informed about all errors, and apologies are hard. Apologizing for a significant medical error that may have caused a complication is even harder. Having a systematic way to go about apologizing makes the process easier, and helps assure that the right information is relayed to the patient and his or her family. This creates an environment of autonomy and shared decision making that is ultimately beneficial to all aspects of patient care.
Hematomas and soft tissue sarcomas can be difficult to differentiate clinically, even with the addition of traditional imaging modalities. There are several case reports of sarcomas being misdiagnosed as hematomas, most commonly with a history of mild trauma. In this case report, we described a sarcoma initially misinterpreted as a hematoma on ultrasound. Key clinical features and sonographic findings that may assist clinicians using point-of-care ultrasound to correctly differentiate sarcomas from hematomas are reviewed. A soft tissue mass larger than 5 cm, with internal vascular Doppler flow, presenting without a clear mechanism of injury or with constitutional symptoms should be considered as suspicious for malignancy.
Partly in response to incentives in the Affordable Care Act, there has been major growth in accountable care organizations (ACO) in both the private and public sectors. For several reasons, growth of ACOs in pediatric care has been more modest than for older populations. The American Academy of Pediatrics collaborated with Leavitt Partners, LLC, to carry out a study of pediatric ACOs, including a series of 5 case studies of diverse pediatric models, a scan of Medicaid ACOs, and a summit of leaders in pediatric ACO development. These collaborative activities identified several issues in ACO formation and sustainability in pediatric settings and outlined a number of opportunities for the pediatric community in areas of organization, model change, and market dynamics; payment, financing, and contracting; quality and value; and use of new technologies. These insights can guide future work in pediatric ACO development.
This paper presents a personal perspective on the value of training overseas in paediatric cardiac surgery. From personal experience and observation, I argue that travel does indeed broaden the mind and placing artificial constraints on movement of trainees is a negative move. We need to work with others, in other cultures to become rounded human beings. And to be an empathetic surgeon, you need to be a rounded human being.
Charles H. Mayo stated 'the great contribution we can make is to prepare the oncoming generations to think they can and will think for themselves'. The Hippocratic Oath also indicates that physicians have an obligation to transmit their knowledge to the next generation. Hence, it is important to find time and resources for education even in busy clinical practices.
The Fellowship Program of the Department of Cardiology at Boston Children's Hospital seeks to train academically oriented leaders in clinical care and laboratory and clinical investigation of cardiovascular disease in the young. The core clinical fellowship involves 3 years in training, comprising 24 months of clinical rotations and 12 months of elective and research experience. Trainees have access to a vast array of research opportunities - clinical, basic, and translational. Clinical fellows interested in basic science may reverse the usual sequence and start their training in the laboratory, deferring clinical training for 1 or more years. An increasing number of clinical trainees apply to spend a fourth year as a senior fellow in one of the subspecialty areas of paediatric cardiology. From the founding of the Department to the present, we have maintained a fundamental and unwavering commitment to training and education in clinical care and research in basic science and clinical investigation, as well as to the training of outstanding young clinicians and investigators.
The significant increase in complex anaesthetic care for infants, children, adolescents, and adults with CHD has given rise to specialized fellowship training programs. Specialized paediatric cardiac anaesthesia training for residents and fellows has advanced significantly since the 1970's, when there a handful of programs. With the advent of formal paediatric anaesthesia fellowship programs in the U.S., more specialized training became available in the 1990's and early 2000's. In the past decade, increasing numbers of second year advanced fellowships in paediatric cardiac anaesthesia have been organized; today in North America there are 18 programs with 25 positions. Standardized recommendations for case numbers and curriculum have been devised and are widely available via journal publications.
The objectives of this review were to discuss the potential impact of Big Data analytics in paediatric cardiovascular disease and its potential to address the challenges of transparency in delivery of care to this unique population.
Congenital heart surgery has evolved into its own specialty requiring unique techniques and skills. Recognizing the need to establish a special certification in congenital heart surgery, the American Board of Thoracic Surgery began the process in 2005, eventually granting the first certifications to qualified applicants in 2009. The American Council for Graduate Medical Education and the Thoracic Surgery Residency Review Committee have now approved specific training programs throughout the United States that will help to ensure the proper training of congenital heart surgeons for the future.
Johns Hopkins has been a leader in paediatric cardiology for over 85 years. In the 1940s, Dr Helen Taussig began training fellows in paediatric cardiology at Johns Hopkins at a time when the diagnosis and treatment of CHD were in the earliest stage. Under her leadership, the fellowship developed a strong foundation that has continued to evolve to meet the current needs of learners and educators. In the current era, the Johns Hopkins programme implements the current theories of adult education and actively engages our fellows in learning as well as teaching. The programme uses techniques such as flipped classroom, structured case-based small-group learning, observed and structured clinical examination, simulations, and innovative educational technology. These strategies combined with our faculty and rich history give our fellows a unique educational experience.
Pediatric cardiology fellowship is a very busy time, with new responsibilities, new knowledge, new technology and fast pace. Above and beyond the science and art of pediatric cardiology, we emphasize that our cardiology fellows are in the middle of the 'people business', with additional roles and responsibilities as they serve their patients and communities. This manuscript provides insight into these opportunities for our pediatric cardiac professionals.
'The oath of hippocrates states the following:To hold him who has taught me this art as equal to my parents and to live my life in partnership with him, and if he is in need of money to give him a share of mine, and to regard his offspring as equal to my brothers in male lineage and to teach them this art - if they desire to learn it - without fee and covenant; to give a share of precepts and oral instruction and all the other learning to my sons and to the sons of him who has instructed me and to pupils who have signed the covenant and have taken an oath according to the medical law, but no one else'.
Pediatric cardiac surgical education and the associated requirements for certification vary considerably from one country to another. Evolution and standardization for pediatric cardiac surgical education may not have kept pace with the evolution of other aspects of the specialty. Restriction of work hours and disqualification of foreign training experience constitute potential threats to our specialty. A global strategy for qualification and certification may help to address some of these difficult issues.
As pediatric cardiac critical care becomes more sub-specialized it is reasonable to assume that dedicated units may provide a better infrastructure for improved multidisciplinary care, cardiac-specific patient safety initiatives, and dedicated training of fellows and residents. The knowledge base required to optimally manage pediatric patients with critical cardiac disease has evolved sufficiently to consider a standardized training curriculum and board certification for pediatric cardiac critical care. This strategy would potentially provide consistency of training and healthcare and improve quality of care and patient safety.
Introduction New paediatric cardiology trainees are required to rapidly assimilate knowledge and gain clinical skills to which they have limited or no exposure during residency. The Pediatric Cardiology Fellowship Boot Camp (PCBC) at Boston Children's Hospital was designed to provide incoming fellows with an intensive exposure to congenital cardiac pathology and a broad overview of major areas of paediatric cardiology practice.   METHODS The PCBC curriculum was designed by core faculty in cardiac pathology, echocardiography, electrophysiology, interventional cardiology, exercise physiology, and cardiac intensive care. Individual faculty contributed learning objectives, which were refined by fellowship directors and used to build a programme of didactics, hands-on/simulation-based activities, and self-guided learning opportunities.   RESULTS A total of 16 incoming fellows participated in the 4-week boot camp, with no concurrent clinical responsibilities, over 2 years. On the basis of pre- and post-PCBC surveys, 80% of trainees strongly agreed that they felt more prepared for clinical responsibilities, and a similar percentage felt that PCBC should be offered to future incoming fellows. Fellows showed significant increase in their confidence in all specific knowledge and skills related to the learning objectives. Fellows rated hands-on learning experiences and simulation-based exercises most highly.   CONCLUSIONS We describe a novel 4-week-long boot camp designed to expose incoming paediatric cardiology fellows to the broad spectrum of knowledge and skills required for the practice of paediatric cardiology. The experience increased trainee confidence and sense of preparedness to begin fellowship-related responsibilities. Given that highly interactive activities were rated most highly, boot camps in paediatric cardiology should strongly emphasise these elements.
BACKGROUND During pediatric cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), vasoactive drug preparation for continuous infusion is both complex and time-consuming, placing children at higher risk than adults for medication errors. Following an evidence-based ergonomic-driven approach, we developed a mobile device app called Pediatric Accurate Medication in Emergency Situations (PedAMINES), intended to guide caregivers step-by-step from preparation to delivery of drugs requiring continuous infusion.   OBJECTIVE The aim of our study was to determine whether the use of PedAMINES reduces drug preparation time (TDP) and time to delivery (TDD; primary outcome), as well as medication errors (secondary outcomes) when compared with conventional preparation methods.   METHODS The study was a randomized controlled crossover trial with 2 parallel groups comparing PedAMINES with a conventional and internationally used drugs infusion rate table in the preparation of continuous drug infusion. We used a simulation-based pediatric CPR cardiac arrest scenario with a high-fidelity manikin in the shock room of a tertiary care pediatric emergency department. After epinephrine-induced return of spontaneous circulation, pediatric emergency nurses were first asked to prepare a continuous infusion of dopamine, using either PedAMINES (intervention group) or the infusion table (control group), and second, a continuous infusion of norepinephrine by crossing the procedure. The primary outcome was the elapsed time in seconds, in each allocation group, from the oral prescription by the physician to TDD by the nurse. TDD included TDP. The secondary outcome was the medication dosage error rate during the sequence from drug preparation to drug injection.   RESULTS A total of 20 nurses were randomized into 2 groups. During the first study period, mean TDP while using PedAMINES and conventional preparation methods was 128.1 s (95% CI 102-154) and 308.1 s (95% CI 216-400), respectively (180 s reduction, P=.002). Mean TDD was 214 s (95% CI 171-256) and 391 s (95% CI 298-483), respectively (177.3 s reduction, P=.002). Medication errors were reduced from 70% to 0% (P<.001) by using PedAMINES when compared with conventional methods.   CONCLUSIONS In this simulation-based study, PedAMINES dramatically reduced TDP, to delivery and the rate of medication errors.
The American College of Cardiology Adult Congenital and Pediatric Cardiology (ACPC) Section had attempted to create quality metrics (QM) for ambulatory pediatric practice, but limited evidence made the process difficult. The ACPC sought to develop QMs for ambulatory pediatric cardiology practice. Five areas of interest were identified, and QMs were developed in a 2-step review process. In the first step, an expert panel, using the modified RAND-UCLA methodology, rated each QM for feasibility and validity. The second step sought input from ACPC Section members; final approval was by a vote of the ACPC Council. Work groups proposed a total of 44 QMs. Thirty-one metrics passed the RAND process and, after the open comment period, the ACPC council approved 18 metrics. The project resulted in successful development of QMs in ambulatory pediatric cardiology for a range of ambulatory domains.
Infants and toddlers are prone to rapidly contracting illnesses, which are usually attributed to infectious diseases. Most nurseries and schools in Japan, however, refuse to accept children even with mild illnesses. For working parents, a sick child may therefore create new problems as the situation requires new day-care arrangements. To support such families, the Japanese government subsidizes construction and management of nurseries that operate especially for sick children. However, it has not been known whether most families are able to access such nurseries. To clarify the accessibility of these services, I calculated the distance to the nurseries from each of the 211,012 'blocks' (small residential areas with a median of 0.18 km2) in Japan and determined the proportion of children aged 0-4 years who lived within 3, 5, 10, 20 or 30 km of the nearest such nursery. Overall, 82.1% of these children lived within 10 km. However, the proportion was lower in northern parts of Japan such as Hokkaido and Tohoku, which have expansive land areas and low population and pediatric department densities. The proportion of children who lived within that same distance of the nearest nursery was also much lower in small towns and villages with 10,000 or fewer residents. Nurseries for sick children were not evenly distributed, and children and their caregivers in under-populated areas had to travel further to access these facilities. As the national government subsidizes such services, children and caregivers throughout Japan should have equal access to them.
OBJECTIVE Patients and physicians identify communication of bad news as a skill in need of improvement. Our objectives were to measure change in performance of first-year pediatric residents in the delivery of bad news after an educational intervention and to measure if changes in performance were sustained over time.   METHODS Communication skills of 29 residents were assessed via videotaped standardized patient (SP) encounters at 3 time points: baseline, immediately post-intervention, and 3 months post-intervention. Educational intervention used was the previously published 'GRIEV_ING Death Notification Protocol.'   RESULTS The intraclass correlation coefficient demonstrated substantial inter-rater agreement with the assessment tool. Performance scores significantly improved from baseline to immediate post-intervention. Performance at 3 months post-intervention showed no change in two subscales and small improvement in one subscale.   CONCLUSIONS We concluded that breaking bad news is a complex and teachable skill that can be developed in pediatric residents. Improvement was sustained over time, indicating the utility of this educational intervention.   PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS This study brings attention to the need for improved communication training, and the feasibility of an education intervention in a large training program. Further work in development of comprehensive communication curricula is necessary in pediatric graduate medical education programs.
BACKGROUND Pediatric patients represent a special challenge both for the management of anesthesia and for communication, especially the anxious and screaming child. Children have specific features of fears, cognition, comprehension and skills depending on the stage of development. In addition, behavior and anxiety are strongly shaped by the parents who have to be incorporated.   AIM This article presents the special features of children as well as practical strategies and aids for dealing with children in a perioperative setting.   MATERIAL AND METHODS In children suggestibility and susceptibility to placebo and nocebo effects are increased. This makes them more sensitive to negative factors but can also be utilized for positive, constructive effects. Possibilities are presented which make use of the special characteristics of children. A number of examples from daily clinical routine혻are given.   RESULTS A child's imagination, creativity and capability for dissociation in particular allow an effective application of indirect suggestion, metaphors, stories, changes in focus of attention, retreat to an inner or imagined safe place, reframing of disturbing noises and events, pacing and leading in small steps and an activation of inner resources. A hand puppet, a pet toy, a little magic trick, introducing a magic friend, acupoint for palpitations with self-affirmation, stick figure drawings, ceiling pictures or holding hands can be quite helpful. All medical devices and interventions can be explained in a way that children can understand and in positive statements without lying or neglecting the need for information.   CONCLUSION Meeting at eye level, talking to the child instead of just about it, a language appropriate for children but not childish, comprehensible information and explanations, return of control and care more than pure technical distance, all play an important role. A serious look into such communication strategies can help the anesthetist to overcome uncertainties that a child can easily sense.
Cardiac involvement in pediatric systemic autoimmune diseases has a wide spectrum of presentation ranging from asymptomatic to severe clinically overt involvement. Coronary artery disease, pericardial, myocardial, valvular and rythm disturbances are the most common causes of heart lesion in pediatric systemic autoimmune diseases and cannot be explained only by the traditional cardiovascular risk factors. Therefore, chronic inflammation has been considered as an additive causative factor of cardiac disease in these patients. Rheumatic fever, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, ankylosing spondylitis/spondyloarthritides, juvenile scleroderma, juvenile dermatomyositis/polymyositis, Kawasaki disease and other autoimmune vasculitides are the commonest pediatric systemic autoimmune diseases with heart involvement. Noninvasive cardiovascular imaging is an absolutely necessary adjunct to the clinical evaluation of these patients. Echocardiography is the cornerstone of this assessment, due to excellent acoustic window in children, lack of radiation, low cost and high availability. However, it can not detect disease acuity and pathophysiologic background of cardiac lesions. Recently, the development of cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging holds the promise for early detection of subclinical heart disease and detailed serial evaluation of myocardium (function, inflammation, stress perfusion-fibrosis) and coronary arteries (assessment of ectasia and aneurysms). </p>.
OBJECTIVES The objective was to describe the interobserver agreement between trained chart reviewers and physician reviewers in a multicenter retrospective chart review study of children with cervical spine injuries (CSIs).   METHODS Medical records of children younger than 16 years old with cervical spine radiography from 17 Pediatric Emergency Care Applied Research Network (PECARN) hospitals from years 2000 through 2004 were abstracted by trained reviewers for a study aimed to identify predictors of CSIs in children. Independent physician-reviewers abstracted patient history and clinical findings from a random sample of study patient medical records at each hospital. Interobserver agreement was assessed using percent agreement and the weighted kappa (觀) statistic, with lower 95% confidence intervals.   RESULTS Moderate or better agreement (觀 > 0.4) was achieved for most candidate CSI predictors, including altered mental status (觀 = 0.87); focal neurologic findings (觀 = 0.74); posterior midline neck tenderness (觀 = 0.74); any neck tenderness (觀 = 0.89); torticollis (觀 = 0.79); complaint of neck pain (觀 = 0.83); history of loss of consciousness (觀 = 0.89); nonambulatory status (觀 = 0.74); and substantial injuries to the head (觀 = 0.50), torso/trunk (觀 = 0.48), and extremities (觀 = 0.59). High-risk mechanisms showed near-perfect agreement (diving, 觀 = 1.0; struck by car, 觀 = 0.93; other motorized vehicle crash, 觀 = 0.93; fall, 觀 = 0.92; high-risk motor vehicle collision, 觀 = 0.89; hanging, 觀 = 0.80). Fair agreement was found for clotheslining mechanisms (觀 = 0.36) and substantial face injuries (觀 = 0.40).   CONCLUSIONS Most retrospectively assessed variables thought to be predictive of CSIs in blunt trauma-injured children had at least moderate interobserver agreement, suggesting that these data are sufficiently valid for use in identifying potential predictors of CSI.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES Sex trafficking (ST) victims have unique medical and mental health needs and are often difficult to identify. Our objectives were to evaluate knowledge gaps and training needs of medical providers, to demonstrate the importance of provider training to meet the pediatric ST victim's specific needs, and to highlight barriers to the identification of and response to victims.   METHODS A survey was sent to providers in specialties that would be most likely to encounter victims of ST. Participants included physicians, nurses, physician assistants, social workers, and patient and family advocates at multiple hospitals and medical clinics in urban, suburban, and rural locations.   RESULTS Of  500 survey recipients, 168 participants responded. In 2 clinical vignettes, 48% correctly classified a minor as an ST victim, and 42% correctly distinguished an ST victim from a child abuse victim. In all, 63% of respondents said that they had never received training on how to identify ST victims. Those with training were more likely to report ST as a major problem locally (P  .001), to have encountered a victim in their practice (P  .001), and to have greater confidence in their ability to identify victims (P  .001). The greatest barriers to identification of victims reported were a lack of training (34%) and awareness (22%) of ST.   CONCLUSIONS Health care providers demonstrate gaps in knowledge and awareness of ST, specifically of pediatric victims, that correlate with their limited experience and training. Training is crucial to improve identification of these victims and provide appropriate care for their specific needs.
OBJECTIVES Primary immunodeficiency diseases (PIDDs) are caused by inherent deficits in immune defenses that result in abnormal susceptibility to infection. In most cases, early and appropriate diagnosis can improve patient outcomes. The objective of this study was to evaluate understanding, recognition, and diagnosis of PIDD among pediatricians.   METHODS A mail survey sent to a sample of pediatricians obtained from the American Medical Association and American Osteopathic Association. Results were compared with a similar survey of specialists who are members of the American Academy of Asthma, Allergy and Immunology.   RESULTS More than a third (35%) of pediatricians were uncomfortable with the recognition and diagnosis of PIDD despite 95% having ordered screening tests or referring patients to specialists to be evaluated for PIDD, and 77% having followed at leastone patient with PIDD. In all, 84% of pediatricians were unaware that professional guidelines for PIDD exist.   CONCLUSIONS Patients with PIDD would benefit from improved recognition of the diseases by pediatricians in order to facilitate earlier diagnosis and optimize ongoing therapy.
INTRODUCTION The number of pediatric surgeons and their distribution vary greatly throughout the world. The purpose of this study is to examine potential influential factors including the length of education and training, pediatric population, birth rate, and gross domestic product (GDP) per capita.   METHODS An internet search was conducted to determine the duration of education from grade school to pediatric surgery fellowship, number of pediatric surgeons, birth rate, GDP, and population under 15 years of age in 15 countries. The number of pediatric surgeons per million children was correlated with these factors.   RESULTS The number of pediatric surgeons per million children varied from 0.51 to 29.3. The total length of education from grade school to completion of pediatric surgery training ranged from 23 to 29 years. There was no correlation between pediatric surgeons per million children with the duration of training. The number of pediatric surgeon per million children was inversely correlated with the birth rate. There was a positive correlation between the GDP per capita and pediatric surgeons per million children.   CONCLUSION There is a tremendous variability in pediatric surgeons around the world. There appears to be a significant shortage of pediatric surgeons in countries with a high birth rate and low GDP per capita.
BACKGROUND/PURPOSE Transition of care from pediatric to adult providers is garnering intense national interest in pediatrics but is largely driven by nonsurgeons. We sought to describe the preferences of pediatric surgeons and their current transition practice patterns for various populations and wondered whether gender, experience, or practice setting affected surgeons' perspectives.   METHODS All American Pediatric Surgical Association (APSA) members were surveyed electronically. Responses were voluntary and confidential.   RESULTS Survey response rate was 22%. Most surgeons (95%) treated patients up to 22 years of age, and many cared for older patients (23-26 years, 49%; 27-30 years, 25%; 31-40 years, 18%; >40 years, 13%). Developmentally delayed adults comprised a significant portion of this population (54%). Congenital conditions such as Hirschsprung disease (25%), anorectal malformations (22%) and cystic fibrosis (22%) were most commonly reported. About half (52%) of respondents reported institutional limits for age. Lack of qualified adult surgeons was felt to be the greatest barrier to transition (p<0.001). Experience, gender and practice type did not significantly affect opinions of transition.   CONCLUSIONS Pediatric surgeons care for adult patients with a variety of surgical conditions, particularly those with developmental delay and congenital anomalies. The perception of a deficit of qualified adult providers warrants further exploration. Understanding the barriers to surgical transition represents a critical step in improving the quality and appropriateness of care transitions.
OBJECTIVES There is variation in the management of postoperative gastroesophageal reflux (GER) in esophageal atresia-tracheoesophageal fistula (EA-TEF). Well-reported literature is important for clinical decision-making. We assessed the quality of reporting (QOR) of postoperative GER management in EA-TEF.   METHODS A comprehensive search of MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINHAL, CENTRAL databases and gray literature was conducted. Included articles reported a primary diagnosis of EA-TEF, a secondary diagnosis of postoperative GER, and primary treatment of GER with antireflux medications. The QOR was assessed using the STrengthening the Reporting of OBservational studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) checklist.   RESULTS Retrieval of 2910 articles resulted in 48 relevant articles (N=2592 patients) with an overall quality percentage score of 48%-95% (median=65%). The best reported items were 'participants' and 'outcome data' (93.8% each), 'generalisability' (91.7%) and 'background/rationale' (89.6%). Less than 20% of studies provided detailed 'main results'; less than 5% of studies reported adequately on 'bias' or 'funding.' Sample size calculation and study limitations were included in 17 (35.4%) and 16 (33.3%) studies respectively. Follow-up time was inconsistently reported.   CONCLUSIONS Although the overall QOR is moderate using STROBE, important areas are underreported. Inadequate methodological reporting may lead to inappropriate clinical decisions. Awareness of STROBE, emphasizing proper reporting is needed.
PURPOSE The purpose of this study was to document the attitudes and practice patterns of pediatric surgeons regarding use of RTUS with CVC placement.   METHODS An analytic survey composed of 20 questions was sent via APSA headquarters to all practicing members. Answers were summarized as frequency and percentage. Distributions of answers were compared using the chi-square tests. P-values 0.05 were considered statistically significant.   RESULTS 361 of 1072 members chose to participate for a response rate of 34%. Most placed CVCs into the subclavian veins (SCV) of patients without coagulopathy, with the left SCV chosen approximately four times more often than the right. Conversely, RTUS use at the internal jugular vein (IJV) was significantly greater than that for the SCV (p<0.001). Coagulopathy, multiple previous catheters, and morbid obesity were identified as patient characteristics that would encourage RTUS use. The most commonly cited potential barriers to RTUS use were lack of formal ultrasound training and the belief that ultrasound is not necessary.   CONCLUSIONS Variability exists among pediatric surgeons regarding use of RTUS during CVC placement. Additional studies are needed to document actual frequency of use, how RTUS is implemented, and its efficacy of preventing adverse events in children.
INTRODUCTION The purpose of this study is to examine the scientific program of the Canadian Association of Pediatric Surgeons (CAPS) to determine if the quality of research has improved.   METHODS CAPS abstracts from 2010 to 2013 were reviewed by two independent researchers. Presentation type, study design, and level of evidence (LOE) were recorded. All differences were adjudicated by an epidemiologist. Fisher's exact test compared results to a previous study that assessed LOE in CAPS abstracts from 2005 to 2009.   RESULTS 291 abstracts were reviewed with 53 excluded and 238 included in final analysis. Reviewers demonstrated high agreement for study design (ICC=0.767 95%CI 0.715-0.810) and LOE (ICC=0.914 95%CI 0.892-0.931). Out of 238 studies, 117 (49%) were podium and 122 (51%) posters. Number of high-quality studies increased in 2010-2013 versus 2005-2009 (n=253), specifically systematic reviews (n=15 (6%) vs. n=3 (1%) p<0.01), randomized controlled trials (n=4 (2%) vs. n=0 (0%), p=0.05), and prospective cohort studies (n=41 (17%) vs. n=26 (10%), p<0.001). Retrospective cohort is still the most common. However, the number of studies has significantly decreased (n=121 (51%) vs. n=171 (68%), p<0.001). The proportion of high-level studies (LOE 2 or better) also improved (48 (20%) vs. 24 (10%) p<0.001).   CONCLUSION The quality of research presented at CAPS has greatly improved, especially in the past five years.
INTRODUCTION Transition periods in medical education are associated with increased risk for learners and patients. For pediatric surgery residents, the transition to training is especially difficult as learners must adjust to new patient populations. In this study we perform a targeted needs assessment to determine the ideal content and format of a pediatric surgery boot camp to facilitate the transition to residency.   METHODS A needs assessment survey was developed and distributed to pediatric surgery residents and staff across North America. The survey asked participants to rank 30 pediatric surgical diagnoses, 20 skills, and 11 physiological topics on 'frequency' and 'importance'. Items were then ranked using empirical methods. The survey also evaluated the preferred boot camp format.   RESULTS In total, 12 residents and 23 staff completed the survey. No significant differences were identified between staff and residents in survey responses. The top 5 topics identified for inclusion in a boot camp were: (1) fluid and electrolyte management, (2) appendicitis, (3) pediatric hernias, (4) nutrition and (5) pain management. The preferred format for a boot camp was 3-4days in duration applying a blend of educational methods.   CONCLUSIONS Based on the results of the needs assessment survey, a novel pediatric surgery boot camp curriculum can be developed.
BACKGROUND Extracorporeal life support (ECLS) is a life-saving technology for the critically ill child. Our objective was to evaluate the outcomes of an educational curriculum designed to introduce an ECLS program to a noncardiac pediatric surgical center.   METHODS An interdisciplinary curriculum was developed consisting of didactic courses, animal labs, simulations, and debrief sessions. We reviewed all patients requiring ECLS between October 2011 and December 2013. All health care practitioners involved in the ECLS training curriculum were surveyed to evaluate their perception of the educational program. Primary outcomes include successful cannulation and 30-day survival.   RESULTS The knowledge and confidence improved with statistical significance (p<0.0001-0.0003) for all of the components of the training curriculum. The highest score was given to the simulations. Twenty-one patients underwent cannulation. All patients were successfully cannulated to bypass, including six (28.6%) ECPR. Median time from activation to cutting was 52min (IQR 40-72), and from cutting to bypass 40min (IQR 30-45). Sixteen patients (76.2%) were decannulated to a sustainable cardiac rhythm and survived 30-days.   CONCLUSION An ECLS curriculum incorporating simulation and dedicated practice seems to have eliminated the potential learning curve associated with the introduction of a complex technology to a novice environment.
INTRODUCTION Conventional surgical aid to emerging countries often does little to build capacity or infrastructure. An evolving model in the South Pacific has been designed to promote local expertise by training local surgeons to a high standard and helping establish sustainable pediatric surgical services in those regions. This review identifies the key elements required to improve and expand local specialist pediatric surgical capacity in Vanuatu. It highlights some of the challenges that face external agencies in helping to create sufficient local infrastructure to achieve these goals and describes how the impediments can be overcome.   METHODOLOGY We conducted a review of the program that provides a sustainable pediatric surgical service to the small and poor Pacific nation of Vanuatu through the involvement and support of the Pacific Island Project administered by the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons.   RESULTS A needs assessment must be done from the recipient's perspective and can be achieved by collaboration between an external agency and existing local surgeons. The key to a sustainable service is identifying and training high quality young indigenous doctors early and providing mentorship and support, including after their return. A sustainable and viable service requires an adequately resourced position for the new surgeons(s) within a framework of a long term strategic plan for the specialty and adequate infrastructure in place on their return. Development of rapport with government and influencing strategic health priorities is a prerequisite of a new national specialty service.   CONCLUSIONS (1) Establishing long term viable pediatric surgical capability can only be achieved through the local health system with local leadership and ownership. (2) Internal capability includes governance, alignment with ministry of health priorities and policies, and effective clinical leadership. (3) Selection of person(s) to be trained is best done early, and he/she must be supported throughout training and afterwards. (4) Long term dependence on a single person makes the service vulnerable. (5) Ultimately, a service configuration that ensures children have timely access to quality specialist advice and which reflects the needs of the population is the main determinant of clinical outcomes.
BACKGROUND The Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) II is a prospective study that evaluates patient reported outcomes in pediatric chronic diseases as a measure of health-related quality of life (HRQOL). We have evaluated the influence of disease duration on HRQOL and, for the first time, compared the findings of the PROMIS measures to those of the PedsQL 4.0 Generic Scales (PedsQL) from the PROMIS II nephrotic syndrome (NS) longitudinal cohort.   METHODS This was a prospective study in which 127 children (age range 8-17혻years) with active NS from 14 centers were enrolled. Children with active NS defined as the presence of nephrotic range proteinuria (>2+ urinalysis and edema or urine protein/creatinine ratio >2혻g/g) were eligible. Comparisons were made between children with prevalent (N=67) and incident (N=60) disease at the study enrollment visit.   RESULTS The PROMIS scores were worse in prevalent patients in the domains of peer relationship (p=0.01) and pain interference (p<0.01). The PedsQL showed worse scores in prevalent patients for social functioning (p<0.01) and school functioning (p=0.03). Multivariable analyses showed that prevalent patients had worse scores in PROMIS pain interference (p=0.02) and PedsQL social functioning (p<0.01).   CONCLUSION The PROMIS measures detected a significant impact of disease duration on HRQOL in children, such that peer relationships were worse and pain interfered with daily life to a greater degree among those with longer disease duration. These findings were in agreement with those for similar domains in the PedsQL legacy instrument.
OBJECTIVE To develop an extemporaneous 1% benznidazole (BNZ) suspension, with masked taste and adequate stability starting from available commercial tablets. The quality of compounding was evaluated through content uniformity measurement and physical and microbiological stability evaluation, under different storage conditions during 90 days.   METHODS Six batches of 1% BNZ suspension were prepared using safe excipients currently available in a galenic area of Hospital Pharmacy and then stored at 5 and 25 째C for 90 days. The BNZ content was determined by UV spectrophotometry. Physical stability was defined as the absence of colour, odour and/or flavour changes and the re-suspension of solid phase by a reasonable amount of simple 15-s shaking. The compliance with microbiological attributes of non-sterile pharmaceutical products was also evaluated.   RESULTS An oral liquid suspension, containing 1% of BNZ, was developed from commercially available BNZ tablets. The formulations stored for 90 days were easily re-dispersed after a simple 15-s shaking, ensuring the pouring of a liquid volume containing the desired dose of BNZ. All samples were within the acceptable range of BNZ concentration with minimal standard deviations. There were no detectable changes in colour, odour, viscosity, pH and microbial growth, complying with official quality requirements. The quality attributes were not affected by storage, room or refrigeration conditions or by the frequent opening or closing of the multidose containers.   CONCLUSION Paediatric oral liquid suspension containing 1.0% of BNZ was easily prepared starting from commercial tablets, being an interesting alternative for optimising the paediatric treatment of Chagas disease.
PURPOSE Given the paucity of research on the experience of pediatric oncology fellows regarding patient death, the purpose of this study was to explore the specific challenges that pediatric oncology fellows face when patients die during their training.   METHODS Six pediatric oncology fellows at two academic cancer centers in Ontario, Canada, were interviewed about their experiences with patient death during their fellowship training. The grounded theory method of data collection and data analysis was used. Line-by-line coding was used to establish themes, and constant comparison was used to establish relationships among emerging codes and themes.   RESULTS Fellows reported structural challenges that included ward duty and lack of follow-up opportunities with bereaved families. Personal challenges included feelings of vulnerability as a result of being a trainee, inexperience with patient death, and feeling alone with one's reactions to patient death. Relational challenges included duration of relationships with families and with supervising staff and perceived lack of modeling on how to cope with patient deaths.   CONCLUSION Structural changes to the fellowship model can be made in order to enhance support with patient death, including informing fellows of all patient deaths and incorporating fellows into follow-up practices with bereaved families. Moreover, integrating fellows' debriefing (facilitated by grief counselors) after a patient death into fellow training, as well as greater involvement with palliative care physicians, can lessen feelings of isolation and help fellows learn effective strategies for dealing with patient deaths from experienced palliative care physicians.
PURPOSE The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate burnout syndrome among internal medicine and pediatrics residents in a country that does not have the working time directive (WTD) and also to determine the risk factors and consequent impact on efficient functioning in clinical areas.   DESIGN/METHODOLOGY/APPROACH A 57-item questionnaire was given to internal medicine and pediatrics residents. Responses from 22 pediatrics and 33 internal medicine residents were evaluated.   FINDINGS Demographic findings, burnout scores, having hobbies, social activities and reading books unrelated to medicine were similar between the two groups. Six pediatrics residents (27.3 per cent) and 11 (33.3 per cent) internal medicine residents met the criteria for clinically significant burnout. Personal accomplishment scores and reading books unrelated to medicine were found to be related to burnout.   ORIGINALITY/VALUE Burnout is a syndrome characterized by depersonalization, emotional exhaustion and a low sense of personal accomplishment. It is important to document burnout in countries where WTDs are not implemented. Further studies might demonstrate burnout's effect on patient safety, service quality and physician's performance.
Microneedle (MN) arrays could offer an alternative method to traditional drug delivery and blood sampling methods. However, acceptance among key end-users is critical for new technologies to succeed. MNs have been advocated for use in children and so, paediatricians are key potential end-users. However, the opinions of paediatricians on MN use have been previously unexplored. The aim of this study was to investigate the views of UK paediatricians on the use of MN technology within neonatal and paediatric care. An online survey was developed and distributed among UK paediatricians to gain their opinions of MN technology and its use in the neonatal and paediatric care settings, particularly for MN-mediated monitoring. A total of 145 responses were obtained, with a completion response rate of 13.7혻%. Respondents believed an alternative monitoring technique to blood sampling in children was required. Furthermore, 83혻% of paediatricians believed there was a particular need in premature neonates. Overall, this potential end-user group approved of the MN technology and a MN-mediated monitoring approach. Minimal pain and the perceived ease of use were important elements in gaining favour. Concerns included the need for confirmation of correct application and the potential for skin irritation. The findings of this study provide an initial indication of MN acceptability among a key potential end-user group. Furthermore, the concerns identified present a challenge to those working within the MN field to provide solutions to further improve this technology. The work strengthens the rationale behind MN technology and facilitates the translation of MN technology from lab bench into the clinical setting.
The Point-Person Project, a child-health research initiative, enables rapid response to opportunities for participation in multicenter pediatric clinical trials.
BACKGROUND Culture results affect the diagnosis and treatment of children with musculoskeletal infection. To our knowledge, no previous large-scale study has assessed the relative value of culture methods employed during the evaluation of these conditions. The purpose of this study was to identify an optimal culture strategy for pediatric musculoskeletal infection.   METHODS Children with musculoskeletal infection were retrospectively studied to assess culture results from the infection site or blood; culture type, including aerobic, anaerobic, fungal, and acid-fast bacteria (AFB); antibiotic exposure history; and clinical history of children with positive culture results.   RESULTS We studied 869 children, including 353 with osteomyelitis, 199 with septic arthritis, forty-two with pyomyositis, and 275 with abscess. The 4537 cultures processed included 1303 aerobic, 903 anaerobic, 340 fungal, 289 AFB, and 1702 blood. Of 3004 specimens sent during initial work-up, positive results occurred in 677 of 1049 aerobic cultures (64.5%), 140 of 763 blood cultures (18.3%), eighteen of 722 anaerobic cultures (2.5%), five of 251 fungal cultures (2.0%), and two of 219 AFB cultures (0.9%). Staphylococcus aureus was the most common pathogen isolated, from 428 (50.7%) of 844 children for whom blood or infection-site culture material was sent (methicillin-resistant S. aureus, 252; and oxacillin-sensitive S. aureus, 176). Cultures were negative in 206 (29.0%) of the 710 children for whom culture material from the site of infection was sent. Children with true-positive anaerobic, fungal, or AFB cultures had a history of immunocompromise, penetrating inoculation, or failed primary treatment. Antibiotic exposure prior to culture-sample acquisition did not interfere with aerobic culture results from the site of infection.   CONCLUSIONS Our findings suggest that anaerobic, fungal, and AFB cultures should not be routinely performed during the initial evaluation of children with hematogenous musculoskeletal infection. These cultures should be performed for children with immunocompromise, clinical suspicion of penetrating inoculation, or failed primary treatment.
It is an honour to present the Anthony Chang lecture at this 10th International Conference of the Pediatric Cardiac Intensive Care Society. I have had the privilege of knowing Dr Chang for over 20 years, and although we only worked for a short period of time together at the Children's Hospital, Boston, in the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit, we have remained close colleagues and friends since that time. The contributions of Dr Chang to the development of paediatric cardiac intensive care are very clear, based on his clinical expertise, research and scholarship, and the development of the Pediatric Cardiac Intensive Care Society in its early days. More than this, Dr Chang is an individual with vision; in many respects, he has been ahead of the curve, anticipating and leading the direction of paediatric cardiac intensive care.
BACKGROUND As a result of cost-containment efforts, preparation programs for outpatient surgery are currently not available to the majority of children and parents. The recent dramatic growth in the Internet presents a unique opportunity to transform how children and their parents are prepared for surgery. In this article, we describe the development of a Web-based Tailored Intervention for Preparation of parents and children undergoing Surgery (WebTIPS).   DEVELOPMENT OF PROGRAM A multidisciplinary taskforce agreed that a Web-based tailored intervention consisting of intake, matrix, and output modules was the preferred approach. Next, the content of the various intake variables, the matrix logic, and the output content was developed. The output product has a parent component and a child component and is described in http://surgerywebtips.com/about.php. The child component makes use of preparation strategies such as information provision, modeling, play, and coping skills training. The parent component of WebTIPS includes strategies such as information provision, coping skills training, and relaxation and distraction techniques. A reputable animation and Web design company developed a secured Web-based product based on the above description.   CONCLUSIONS In this article, we describe the development of a Web-based tailored preoperative preparation program that can be accessed by children and parents multiple times before and after surgery. A follow-up article in this issue of Anesthesia & Analgesia describes formative evaluation and preliminary efficacy testing of this Web-based tailored preoperative preparation program.
BACKGROUND The purpose of this 2-phase project was to conduct a formative evaluation and to test the preliminary efficacy of a newly developed Web-based Tailored Intervention for Preparation of parents and children undergoing Surgery (WebTIPS).   METHODS Phase 1 enrolled 13 children 2 to 7 years of age undergoing outpatient elective surgery and their parents for formative evaluation of WebTIPS. Parent participation focus groups are common in qualitative research and are a method of asking research participants about their perceptions and attitudes regarding a product or concept. In phase 2, children 2 to 7 years of age in 2 medical centers were assigned randomly to receive the WebTIPS program (n = 38) compared with children receiving the standard of care (n = 44). The primary outcome of phase II was child and parent preoperative anxiety.   RESULTS In phase 2, parents reported WebTIPS to be both helpful (P < 0.001) and easy to use (P < 0.001). In phase 2, children in the WebTIPS group (36.2 짹 14.1) were less anxious than children in the standard of care group (46.0 짹 19.0) at entrance to the operating room (P = 0.02; Cohen d = 0.59) and introduction of the anesthesia mask (43.5 짹 21.7 vs 57.0 짹 21.2, respectively, P = 0.01; Cohen d = 0.63). Parents in the WebTIPS group (32.1 짹 7.4) also experienced less anxiety compared with parents in the control group (36.8 짹 7.1) in the preoperative holding area (P = 0.004; Cohen d = 0.65).   CONCLUSIONS WebTIPS was well received by parents and children and led to reductions in preoperative anxiety.
Approximately 1.5 million neonates receive general anesthesia each year for a surgical procedure. Despite this being an essential practice, a number of recent studies now indicate that anesthetic exposure could cause toxicity and neuronal apoptosis in the developing brain. This could potentially influence long-term neurodevelopmental outcome, especially premature infants in need of multiple surgical procedures. Most anesthetic drugs routinely administered to neonates have not been adequately tested for safety or efficacy. Given the number of confounders, dosing is often extrapolated from adults. This is concerning since many different drugs can be administered concurrently, with few of these agents actually approved for use by the Food and Drug Administration. Since 1997, legislation has been passed in the United States and abroad encouraging more drug investigation in infants and children. This has resulted in over 500 labeling changes to products regarding safety and efficacy in various pediatric age groups. However, only three drugs routinely used as anesthetic agents in newborn infants have had any updated labeling (none in very premature infants). This 'off-label' use without adequate testing must be addressed. Therefore, more clinical trials of common anesthetic agents used alone and in combination in neonates are urgently needed.
Pediatric primary care physicians often report low efficacy in managing childhood overweight and obesity. The objectives of this study were to assess Oklahoma pediatric providers' attitudes, practices, and training needs related to childhood obesity management. A 24-item survey was emailed to members of the Oklahoma Chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics (OKAAP). 46 of the 254 members (18%) participated in the survey. Respondents identified overweight and obesity and recognized the importance of management; however, they reported limited proficiency in behavioral management and lack of resources to assist with management.
The aim of this study was to determine the radiation doses to paediatric patients of different age groups at three large hospitals for optimisation purposes. The entrance surface air kerma (ESAK) values were determined from the measured X-ray output values using calibrated ionisation chamber, TW 233612 and clinical patient parameters. The air kerma-area product (KAP) values were measured using a calibrated Diamentor E2 system. The volume computed tomography dose index (CTDIvol) and dose length product (DLP) values were obtained from the computed tomography (CT) equipment verified by a calibrated CT chamber, Unifors Xi CT. Irrespective of age groups, the results show that the median ESAK values ranged from 62.6 to 248.1 쨉Gy. The median KAP values ranged from 135.6 to 1612 쨉Gy cm(2), while the median DLP values ranged from 119.1 to 600 mGy cm. Analysis of the results indicates that optimisation can be achieved through good practice awareness and patient dose and image quality evaluations.
INTRODUCTION Pediatric patients with chronic urologic conditions frequently require lifelong evaluation and treatment. Transition to adult urologic care is critically important as these patients mature and the goals of care shift to include sexual function, fertility, and reconstruction.   OBJECTIVE Our objectives are to (1) quantify and describe the population of young adult patients with congenital or childhood-acquired urologic problems who continue to be followed in pediatric urology clinic, to (2) discuss the numerous obstacles to successful care transition, and to (3) outline the design features of the dedicated transition clinic we established in response to the identification of a sizeable population in need.   STUDY DESIGN We (1) performed a retrospective review of our electronic health record to identify young adult patients 19-35 years of age seen in pediatric urology clinic over a five year period. Patients without a chronic urologic diagnosis were excluded. We identified each patient's primary diagnosis and status with respect to transition of care. We then (2) established a dedicated transition clinic to facilitate progression to adult care services at our institution.   RESULTS Among 480 young adult patients seen in the pediatric clinic during the five-year period, 99 patients with an average age of 22.4 years were identified as having a chronic congenital or childhood-acquired diagnoses requiring urologic care. At the end of the five-year period, 40 of 99 patients (40.4%) had successfully transitioned to adult care while 59 patients (59.6%) continued care with pediatric urology. Among patients yet to transition, spinal dysraphism (30%) was the most common primary diagnosis. In this same group, discussion regarding transfer to adult care was documented during at least one visit in only 8 of the 59 patients (13.6%). All patients in this cohort had healthcare needs that included sexual function, fertility, or reconstruction.   DISCUSSION The present data confirm the presence of sizeable population of young adult patients with chronic urologic problems and maturing care needs who 1) continue to receive exclusively pediatric care, and 2) are rarely engaged in preparatory discussions regarding care transition. Obstacles to successful transition of care are numerous and include limited staff training, lack of identified staff member responsible for transition, financial and psychosocial barriers, and discomfort on the part of physicians, patients and families. We describe the additional challenges that are unique to transition of care in urology. We share a blueprint of our recently-established transition with the hope of prompting additional discussion and facilitating transitional urologic care elsewhere.   CONCLUSION Many young adult patients with chronic urologic conditions continue to receive care from pediatric urologists well into adulthood. We hope that our clinic might serve as a model for augmentation of urologic transition services at other institutions. We anticipate a future report evaluating our clinic's impact on long-term follow up, clinical outcomes, and patient satisfaction.
Female genital mutilation (FGM) is almost always performed on children and consequently paediatricians should have a central role in the detection and prevention of FGM. FGM has no health benefits and can cause lifelong damage to physical and psychological health. Extensive migration of FGM practising communities means that FGM is now a global problem. Paediatricians worldwide need to be familiar with the identification and classification of FGM and its impact upon health as well as current trends in practice. However information about FGM is hampered by the secrecy surrounding the procedure and a lack of rigorous evidence based research. This review summarises what is currently known about the health aspects of FGM and how paediatricians should manage children with FGM in their clinical practice.
Advances in pediatric cardiology and cardiac surgical techniques over the past few decades have revolutionized the management of the patients with congenital heart disease, and many now survive into adulthood. Several eponymous surgical procedures performed for congenital heart disease have been named after eminent surgeons. In this article, we provide a short biography of the surgeons associated with these eponymous surgical procedures along with their other important scientific contributions. This is followed by a review of these surgical procedures and their most common complications. Imaging appearances of these surgical procedures along with common complications are described and illustrated, with particular emphasis on magnetic resonance imaging. The surgical procedures described in this review include Blalock-Taussig, Potts, Waterston, Glenn, Fontan, Kawashima, Norwood, Sano, Damus-Kaye-Stansel, Mustard, Senning, Jatene, LeCompte, Rastelli, Rashkind, Ross, and Waldenhausen.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES Failure to attend pediatric outpatient endoscopic procedures leads to inefficient use of resources, longer wait-list times, and delay in diagnoses. The causes for pediatric endoscopy nonattendance are not well studied. The aim of the study was to identify factors associated with failure to attend endoscopic procedures and to assess the value of quality improvement (QI) interventions implemented to improve pediatric endoscopy attendance.   METHODS This was a continuous QI project. We collected nonattendance data from November 2011 to November 2013. Information collected included procedure type, age, sex, time on the waiting list, history of previous procedures, and reason for nonattendance. The following QI interventions were implemented sequentially: an appointment reminder letter, a telephone call 1 week before procedure, and creation of an electronic medical note dedicated to endoscopy appointment. Pareto charts and statistical process control charts were used for analysis.   RESULTS From November 2011 to November 2013, we were able to decrease nonattendance from 17% to 11% (P=0.005). No-show rate was reduced from 5% to 0.9% (P=0.00001). There was no significant difference between attendees and nonattendees in relation to sex, age, or having a previous procedure. Longer waiting time (33 vs 26 days) was associated with increased risk for nonattendance (P=0.0007). The most common causes for nonattendance were illness (31.5%), followed by caregiver/patients who no longer wanted the procedure (17.7%), and patients who improved (12.9%).   CONCLUSIONS Applying QI methods and tools improved pediatric endoscopy attendance. Longer wait time for endoscopic procedures is associated with nonattendance. Given the increased pediatric endoscopy demand, strategies should be implemented to reduce wait time for pediatric endoscopy.
OBJECTIVE Effective July 1, 2012, CT dose reporting became mandatory in California. We sought to assess radiologist compliance with this legislation and to determine areas for improvement.   MATERIALS AND METHODS We retrospectively reviewed reports from all chest CT examinations performed at our institution from July 1, 2012, through June 30, 2013, for errors in documentation of volume CT dose index (CTDIvol), dose-length product (DLP), and phantom size. Reports were considered as legally compliant if both CTDIvol and DLP were documented accurately and as institutionally compliant if phantom size was also documented accurately. Additionally, we tracked reports that did not document dose in our standard format (phantom size, CTDIvol for each series, and total DLP).   RESULTS Radiologists omitted CTDIvol, DLP, or both in nine of 664 examinations (1.4%) and inaccurately reported one or both of them in 56 of the remaining 655 examinations (8.5%). Radiologists omitted phantom size in 11 of 664 examinations (1.7%) and inaccurately documented it in 20 of the remaining 653 examinations (3.1%). Of 664 examinations, 599 (90.2%) met legal reporting requirements, and 583 (87.8%) met institutional requirements. In reporting dose, radiologists variably used less decimal precision than available, summed CTDIvol, included only series-level DLP, and specified dose information from the scout topogram or a nonchest series for combination examinations.   CONCLUSION Our institutional processes, which primarily rely on correct human performance, do not ensure accurate dose reporting and are prone to variation in dose reporting format. In view of this finding, we are exploring higher-reliability processes, including better-defined standards and automated dose reporting systems, to improve compliance.
BACKGROUND PIDs are a heterogeneous group of genetic illnesses, and delay in their diagnosis is thought to be caused by a lack of awareness among physicians concerning PIDs. The latter is what we aimed to evaluate in Brazil.   METHODS Physicians working at general hospitals all over the country were asked to complete a 14-item questionnaire. One of the questions described 25 clinical situations that could be associated with PIDs and a score was created based on percentages of appropriate answers.   RESULTS A total of 4026 physicians participated in the study: 1628 paediatricians (40.4%), 1436 clinicians (35.7%), and 962 surgeons (23.9%). About 67% of the physicians had learned about PIDs in medical school or residency training, 84.6% evaluated patients who frequently took antibiotics, but only 40.3% of them participated in the immunological evaluation of these patients. Seventy-seven percent of the participating physicians were not familiar with the warning signs for PIDs. The mean score of correct answers for the 25 clinical situations was 48.08% (짹16.06). Only 18.3% of the paediatricians, 7.4% of the clinicians, and 5.8% of the surgeons answered at least 2/3 of these situations appropriately.   CONCLUSIONS There is a lack of medical awareness concerning PIDs, even among paediatricians, who have been targeted with PID educational programmes in recent years in Brazil. An increase in awareness with regard to these disorders within the medical community is an important step towards improving recognition and treatment of PIDs.
OBJECTIVES To examine the feasibility of deploying a virtual web service for sharing data within a research network, and to evaluate the impact on data consistency and quality.   MATERIAL AND METHODS Virtual machines (VMs) encapsulated an open-source, semantically and syntactically interoperable secure web service infrastructure along with a shadow database. The VMs were deployed to 8 Collaborative Pediatric Critical Care Research Network Clinical Centers.   RESULTS Virtual web services could be deployed in hours. The interoperability of the web services reduced format misalignment from 56% to 1% and demonstrated that 99% of the data consistently transferred using the data dictionary and 1% needed human curation.   CONCLUSIONS Use of virtualized open-source secure web service technology could enable direct electronic abstraction of data from hospital databases for research purposes.
OBJECTIVE Develop a measure that evaluates effective pediatric food allergy (FA) management, child and parent FA anxiety, and integration of FA into family life.   METHODS A semistructured family interview was developed to evaluate FA management using a pilot sample (n = 27). Rating scales evaluated eight dimensions of FA management (FAMComposite), child anxiety, parent anxiety, and overall balanced integration (BI). Families of children with IgE-mediated food allergies (n = 60, child age: 6-12) were recruited for interview and rating scale validation.   RESULTS FAMComposite was correlated with physician ratings for families' food avoidance and reaction response readiness. FA anxiety was correlated with general anxiety measures for children, but not parents. Parents' FA anxiety was correlated with expectations of negative outcomes from FA. Low BI was associated with poor quality of life and negative impact on family functioning.   CONCLUSIONS Preliminary analyses support Food Allergy Management and Adaptation Scale validity as a measure of family adaptation to pediatric FA.
BACKGROUND Transitioning youth with multiple sclerosis (MS) represent a vulnerable group to potentially poor outcomes. It is unknown how pediatric MS patients transition into adult care.   OBJECTIVES To describe self-management skills that include adherence to disease-modifying therapies, quality of life measures, illness perception, transition readiness and healthcare skills assessments in patients with pediatric MS and associations with clinical and cognitive outcomes.   METHODS This is a prospective cross-sectional study at the pediatric MS center and transitional MS clinic at the University of California, San Francisco. Patients and one of their parents completed validated surveys for self-management skills. Non-adherence is defined as not taking their medication more than 20% of the time in the past 1 month. Wilcoxin matched-pairs rank test and McNemar's tests were used for comparison of patient and parent responses. Univariate and multivariate regression models were used for analyses adjusting for disease duration and socio-economic status.   RESULTS Thirty patients were enrolled with a mean (+/-SD) age of 15.8 years+/-2.8, 53% was female and 47% Hispanic. The rate of non-adherence was 37%. The most common reason for non-adherence was forgetting to take their medication reported in 50% of patients. In adjusted regression models, higher EDSS was associated with a lower score on patient's quality of life (13 points decrease, 95% CI 618, p<0.0001), and lower healthcare skills (15 points decrease, 95% CI526, p=0.006). Four points increase in Symbol Digit Modalities Test score was associated a 0.1 increase in transition readiness score (95% CI0.070.2, p=0.001) and 3.9 points increase in health care skills scores (95% CI 1.76, p=0.008).
BACKGROUND The American Academy of Pediatrics has identified the need for more subspecialists. Beginning a pediatric pulmonary fellowship program in a tertiary care hospital can be a challenging process. Persistence, perseverance, and working through barriers to education are important strides to take toward achieving this goal. We share our experience with this endeavor. The objective of this study was to describe our experience developing a pediatric pulmonary fellowship program, the challenges we faced, and the methods we used to meet and overcome those challenges.   METHODS Self-reflection by the program director, associate director, and coordinator involved in the development and implementation of a successful fellowship program. This includes the step by step process, effort, and time commitment needed for planning and implementing a fellowship program. Our goals are to share this information with the medical community. RESULTS/OUTCOMES/IMPROVEMENTS: Planning, preparing, and implementing a pediatric pulmonary fellowship program can be challenging in the current economic climate, especially considering budget constraints and increasingly demanding clinical mandates. Department chairs and administrators view work relative value units as a marker for remuneration; educational efforts are more often an unfunded mandate. Major difficulties included imposing new educational expectations on the clinical staff and expanding the budget to include fellows' costs. Developing a program information form (PIF) was a work-in-progress over a two-year period with the dedicated staff meeting regularly during this time.
The article considers organizational principles, technologies and criteria of effectiveness of actual preventive activities considering indicators of health condition of children and adolescents. The structures participating in implementation of general and specific prevention among children and adolescents are presented. The structures' functions are enumerated concerning development of succession and unity of preventive environment. The particular attention is paid to development of informational and telecommunication technologies in the fields of health care legal support of health care of children and adolescents, manpower development in area of preventive pediatrics.
BACKGROUND Pediatric palliative care (PPC) improves the quality of life for children with life-limiting conditions, but the cost of care associated with PPC has not been quantified. This study examined the association between inpatient cost and receipt of PPC among high-cost inpatients.   METHODS The 10% most costly inpatients treated at a children's hospital in 2010 were studied, and factors associated with receipt of PPC were determined. Among patients dying during 2010, we compared 2010 inpatient costs between PPC recipients and nonrecipients. Inpatient costs during the 2-year follow up period between PPC recipients and nonrecipients were also compared. Patients were analyzed in 2 groups: those who died and those who survived the 2-year follow-up.   RESULTS Of 902 patients, 86 (10%) received PPC. Technology dependence, older age, multiple chronic conditions, PICU admission, and death in 2010 were independently associated with receipt of PPC. PPC recipients had increased inpatient costs compared with nonrecipients during 2010. Among patients who died during the 2-year follow-up, PPC recipients had significantly lower inpatient costs. Among survivors, PPC recipients had greater inpatient costs. When controlling for patient complexity, differences in inpatient costs were not significant.   CONCLUSIONS The relationship of PPC to inpatient costs is complex. PPC seems to lower costs among patients approaching death. Patients selectively referred to PPC who survive most often do so with chronic serious illnesses that predispose them to remain lifelong high-resource utilizers.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES Concern is often expressed about the satisfaction of new physicians and the potential match of their workplace goals with available positions. We studied the interface of desired professional activities with actual initial positions.   METHODS Survey study of all general pediatricians taking the 2012 General Pediatrics Certifying Examination.   RESULTS Of the 5210 who sat for the General Pediatrics Certifying Examination, 5163 (>99%) completed the survey. Of the total respondents, 45% self- identified as general pediatricians (N = 2327). Of those who completed training <2 years ago (N = 1365), most were currently engaged in clinical care (87%; N = 1190). The most important factor, cited most frequently by both men and women, in the choice of their first job was lifestyle and spousal or family considerations. Most (83%; N = 977) reported that the allocation of time for specific duties in their current position was consistent with their goals, with no differences between men and women. Most had no desire for inpatient activity.   CONCLUSIONS Despite concerns about young general pediatricians being able to find positions that meet their career goals, most were in jobs that approximated their desired allocation of professional time and focus of clinical work.
OBJECTIVE To compare financial charges between children treated and released from an emergency department (ED) with those evaluated in an after-hours (AH) pediatric clinic.   METHODS Medical records were retrospectively reviewed for 200 children <15 years of age treated in a hospital-based ED and compared with 200 children seen in an AH pediatric clinic. Our main outcome was median overall patient charges by clinic setting. We additionally examined charges by the 6 most common disease diagnoses.   RESULTS Median charges for children treated and released from the ED were $457 [interquartile range (IQR) $320-$628] compared with $140 (IQR $140-$140) for those treated in the AH clinic (P < .01). In addition, median charges were higher for the ED group in the 6 most common disease classes shared between the 2 study groups, both overall and for individual disease class comparison between study groups (all P < .01). We examined the association between charges and clinic setting in multiple quantile regression model while simultaneously adjusting for age, gender, insurance status, and diagnosis. Median costs were $305 (95% CI = $261 to $348; P < .01) more for the ED compared with the AH group.   CONCLUSION We found that financial charges for pediatric health care delivered in an AH clinic were less than those in an ED. We found significantly higher charges for the ED when like diagnoses were compared. Patients should be encouraged to attend AH clinics for urgent care needs when appropriate, which could result in significant cost savings to the health care system.
OBJECTIVES High-fidelity simulation (HFS) is widely used in pediatric emergency medicine (PEM) training and a competent facilitator is vital for effective learning. This survey describes the characteristics, comfort, practices, and need of PEM physicians as HFS facilitators.   METHODS A descriptive cross-sectional survey was electronically distributed to Pediatric Emergency Research Canada physician members, representing 14 academic pediatric emergency departments nationally.   RESULTS The response rate was 66.6% (92/138); 63% (56/89) of PEM physicians taught HFS. Junior attending physicians (P = 0.011) and those with an education focus (P = 0.005) were more comfortable in using HFS. Sixty-eight percent (38/56) described their facilitator training as formal. Generally, facilitators felt comfortable in running simulations (weighted mean scale, 1.53 [<2 = comfortable] on a 5-point rating scale). Facilitators with formal training used verbal confidentiality agreements more frequently (P = 0.008), spent less time running the scenario (P < 0.05) and spent more time in debriefing (P < 0.05) than those without formal training. Sixty-three percent (n = 56) of facilitators identified debriefing as the most stressful aspect of HFS. Their main barrier to HFS teaching was lack of protected teaching time (mean scale, 2.02 [>2 = barrier]). Seventy-six percent (35/46) of respondents desired online and printable facilitator information. Seventy percent (35/51) thought the ideal time for formal facilitator training was during fellowship.   CONCLUSIONS High-fidelity simulation is a widely used educational modality, and more attention must be paid to the needs of the facilitator in order to optimize the educational experience. Standardized facilitator training, focused particularly on effective debriefing techniques, would help improve facilitator comfort with HFS.
For nearly two centuries, the ophthalmoscope has permitted examination of the retina and optic nerve-the only axons directly visualized by the physician. The retinal ganglion cells project their axons, which travel along the innermost retina to form the optic nerve, marking the beginning of the anterior visual pathway. Both the structure and function of the visual pathway are essential components of the neurologic examination as it can be involved in numerous acquired, congenital and genetic central nervous system conditions. The development of optical coherence tomography now permits the pediatric neuroscientist to visualize and quantify the optic nerve and retinal layers with unprecedented resolution. As optical coherence tomography becomes more accessible and integrated into research and clinical care, the pediatric neuroscientist may have the opportunity to utilize and/or interpret results from this device. This review describes the basic technical features of optical coherence tomography and highlights its potential clinical and research applications in pediatric clinical neuroscience including optic nerve swelling, optic neuritis, tumors of the visual pathway, vigabatrin toxicity, nystagmus, and neurodegenerative conditions.
Three specific characteristics must be taken into account in our management of the pediatric patient: each child is a developing person and therefore vulnerable, and is also part of a family. Our reflections and practices must be guided by these three characteristics. The following aspects are dealt with here: -Healthcare organization must emphasize the importance of collaborative networks, -All child-oriented preventive actions and screening programs have a dual aim: to preserve the health of the individual concerned, and also to improve public health. One must never forget that children's current health status will determine the health of tomorrow's adults. The resources provided by the government be therefore commensurate with these objectives. -Management of common diseases but also specific and complex health disorders such as chronic diseases and disabilities, -The need to provide pertinent answers to lifestyle questions posed not only by the child and his/her family, but also by other pediatric professionals, -Specific pediatric research and knowledge dissemination.
Pediatric medicine is one of the most important activities of any teaching hospital. Its internal organization depends on the size of the hospital and must take into account not only its missions of advice, reference and proximity, but also economic issues. Regional networking with general hospitals, private clinics and community pediatricians is necessary, if only to regulate use of the emergency department. The activity of pediatric units fluctuates over time and is not always controllable, involving both rapid turnover and extended stays. Cost of health is often underestimated or unadapted, and many units are in financial deficit despite their best efforts. University pediatrician training is highly demanding in order to ensure the quality of recruitment, but it must be sufficiently flexible if it is to attract a suficient number of candidates. As with other specialties, research is relatively easy to evaluate, contrary to teaching and clinical activity.
Paediatrics is the medicine of the developing human being, the future adult. In France, this role is mainly ensured by private-practice pediatricians. The pediatrician's field of action is highly varied, sometimes going far beyond organic medicine to cover children's emotional, educational and sociocultural environment, with the overriding aim of helping them to make the best use of their skills and to become healthy, well integrated adults. Unfortunately, there is a lack of private practice pediatricians in France and their geographic distribution is highly uneven. Private practice must be reorganized to ensure that all children have access to a pediatrician.
OBJECTIVE To give an overview of disciplinary cases regarding action taken by paediatricians and paediatric residents in cases of (suspected) child abuse and to discuss the considerations of the disciplinary board in these cases.   DESIGN Retrospective, descriptive study.   METHOD We considered all disciplinary cases instigated from 2001 to 2013 against paediatricians or paediatric residents and selected complaints regarding action taken in cases of (suspected) child abuse. We divided these complaints into six categories and studied the considerations of the disciplinary board in these cases.   RESULTS From 33 disciplinary cases instigated from 2001 to 2013, we selected 76 complaints regarding action taken by paediatricians or paediatric residents in cases of (suspected) child abuse. The majority of these complaints concerned the reporting or requesting of information in the context of (suspected) child abuse. All of the complaints in the category 'unwarranted reporting of child abuse' were declared unfounded by the disciplinary judge.   CONCLUSION The disciplinary board declared all complaints unfounded in cases where the paediatrician or paediatric resident had followed the Dutch national protocol regarding reporting of child abuse and domestic violence. The disciplinary board examines whether action was taken in accordance with reasonable standards of professional competence and considers that paediatricians have an important role in identifying child abuse.
PURPOSE Resident Research (RR) has been a presumed requirement for pediatric surgery fellowship candidates. We hypothesized that: 1) pediatric surgery leaders would no longer feel that RR was necessary for fellowship candidates, 2) the type of study performed would not impact a program's opinion of candidates, and 3) the timing of RR could be altered for those interested in a research career.   METHODS An anonymous survey was sent to pediatric surgery fellowship program directors (PDs). Sixty-three percent responded, and answers were compared via Chi square analysis with p<0.05 being significant.   RESULTS Respondents did not agree that RR was critical for pediatric surgery fellowship candidates. Seventy-five percent had no preference between one or two years of research (p=0.0005), 79% placed no heavier weight on basic or clinical research (p<0.0001), and 76% had no preference between scientific research or humanitarian efforts (p=0.0003). Sixty-three percent felt that surgeon scientists would be better prepared for extramural funding if RR was performed at the end of training (p=0.04).   CONCLUSION Dedicated research time during general surgery may not be necessary. Pediatric surgery candidates who partake in RR are not penalized for their choice of study. Increasing efficiency of training is important in today's era of medical training.
The aims of this work were to report the results of a national survey on entrance surface air kerma (ESAK) values for different phantom thicknesses and operation modes in paediatric interventional cardiology (IC) systems and to compare them with previous values. The national survey also offers suggested investigation levels (ILs) for ESAK in paediatric cardiac procedures. ESAK was measured on phantoms of 4-16 cm thickness of polymethyl methacrylate slabs. For low fluoroscopy mode (FM), ESAK rates ranged from 0.11 to 33.1 mGy min(-1) and for high FM from 0.34 to 61.0 mGy min(-1). For cine mode, values of ESAK per frame were from 1.9 to 78.2 쨉Gy fr(-1). The ILs were suggested as the third quartile of the values measured. This research showed lower ESAK values than in previous research, particularly for ESAK values in cine modes. This work represents a first step towards launching a national programme in paediatric dosimetry for IC procedures.
In 1923, Dr. Alfred Traisman literally hung out his shingle on the corner of Clark Street and Arthur Avenue in the East Rogers Park neighborhood of Chicago, IL, and thus began over 90 years of our practice-providing care to pediatric patients in the Chicagoland area. We have witnessed many changes since those early days but what has stayed consistent is the continuity of care, the focus on the patient, and our office as the medical home. The practice has 3 generations of Traisman pediatricians and some families can actually be traced back 5 generations.
Analysis of data from large administrative databases and patient registries is increasingly being used to study childhood cancer care, although the value of these data sources remains unclear to many clinicians. Interpretation of large databases requires a thorough understanding of how the dataset was designed, how data were collected, and how to assess data quality. This review will detail the role of administrative databases and registry databases for the study of childhood cancer, tools to maximize information from these datasets, and recommendations to improve the use of these databases for the study of pediatric oncology.
OBJECTIVE To assess the effect of a multifaceted quality improvement intervention on variability of left ventricular dimensions as measured on pediatric echocardiograms.   METHODS Variability of measurements of left ventricular dimensions was assessed using percent error before a multifaceted educational intervention. Sonographers attended group sessions, used visual prompts and received individual feedback regarding the proper technique for measuring the left ventricle. Variability was reassessed following the intervention.   RESULTS Sonographers were more likely to use proper measurement technique (38% vs. 62%, P = .017) after the educational intervention. The percent error of the left ventricular end systolic measurement decreased significantly (12.4% to 8.8%, P = .002). The percent error of the left ventricular end diastolic measurement showed a trend toward a decrease (7.7% to 5.8%, P = .067). There was no significant improvement in percent error for other measurements. Use of correct technique and sonographer experience of less than 5 years predicted decreased percent error.   CONCLUSION A multifaceted educational intervention can be used to improve measurement variability in pediatric echocardiography laboratories.
BACKGROUND Diagnostic delays may not have significant prognostic implications in paediatric oncology, but psychological impacts remain understudied.   METHODS Interviews exploring diagnostic experiences were conducted with childhood cancer survivors (n=19), parents (n=78) and siblings (n=15).   RESULTS Median diagnostic time was 3 weeks. Participants described a mixture of rapid diagnoses (28.9%), plus delayed appraisal intervals (that is, parent- or patient-associated diagnostic delays; 40.0%) and diagnostic intervals (that is, healthcare-associated delays; 46.7%). Families experiencing delays described guilt and anger and deleterious impacts on the family-clinician relationship. Some believed delays impacted on treatment and prognosis.   CONCLUSIONS The effect of the diagnostic experience can be considerable.
The number of medical errors is increasing. Medical errors have negative impact on the professional activities of physicians. Analysis of the causes and incidence of medical errors and conflicts in clinical practice of foreign and domestic doctors is presented based on the author's observations and didactic materials recommended for training doctors to prevent conflict situations in their professional work and for developing a common strategy for the prevention of medical errors.
OBJECTIVES To evaluate and compare the management approaches of pediatric and general emergency medicine physicians in infants presenting to the emergency department (ED) with complaint of fever.   METHODS Infants 90 days of age or younger with a chief complaint of fever were included for review. Vital signs, laboratory workup, disposition, and final diagnosis were collected. Compliance with guidelines was assessed and compared between EDs.   RESULTS Compliance with admission guidelines was not significantly different in any of the 3 age groups evaluated between the pediatric and general ED (PED and GED). Compliance with guideline recommendations for laboratory workup was not significantly different between the 2 EDs, nor was overall compliance with guideline recommendations.   CONCLUSIONS No significant variations in the management of febrile infants or compliance with published guidelines between PED and GED physicians were observed. Young infants can be safely treated for fever in the PED or GED.
Simon van Creveld received both the MD and PhD degrees and had a multifaceted medical and scientific education at many hospitals and research institutes in the Netherlands, Germany, and the UK. He and his wife were the first to develop insulin for the Netherlands. His major interests were in hemophilia and hemorrhagic disorders, which accounted for 87 of his publications. In 1934, van Creveld demonstrated that a dispersed protein fraction obtained from serum could reduce the clotting time of hemophilic blood. His interest in glycogen storage disease resulted in van Creveld-von Gierke disease for which van Creveld contributed four published articles. The Ellis-van Creveld syndrome, also known as chondroectodermal dysplasia, was published in 1940 and became well known to medical geneticists. During the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands, van Creveld's professorship was taken away from him because he was Jewish. His visits to hospitals of concentration camps to treat babies and give pediatric advice while wearing a Jewish Yellow Star and interacting with SS Commandants in charge, and then leaving can only be described as amazing. After the war, his professorship was returned, and in the same year as his retirement, he established a large Hemophila Treatment and Research Center now known as the Van Creveld Clinic, which celebrated its 40th anniversary in 2005.
Multiple sclerosis and other demyelinating diseases in the pediatric population have received an increasing level of attention by clinicians and researchers. The low incidence of these diseases in children creates a need for the involvement of multiple clinical centers in research efforts. The Network of Pediatric Multiple Sclerosis Centers was created initially in 2006 to improve the diagnosis and care of children with demyelinating diseases. In 2010, the Network shifted its focus to multicenter research while continuing to advance the care of patients. The Network has obtained support from the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, the Guthy-Jackson Charitable Foundation, and the National Institutes of Health. The Network will continue to serve as a platform for conducting impactful research in pediatric demyelinating diseases of the central nervous system. This article provides a description of the history and development, organization, mission, research priorities, current studies, and future plans of the Network.
OBJECTIVES Dedicated pediatric emergency departments (ED) staffed by pediatric emergency medicine physicians are becoming more common. We compared processes of care and outcomes before and after opening a dedicated pediatric ED.   METHODS A before and after trial design was used to estimate whether there were any changes in ordering of laboratory tests, radiographic imaging, admission rates, ED length of stay (LOS), rates of left without being seen (LWBS) and patient satisfaction scores after opening a dedicated pediatric ED staffed by pediatric emergency medicine physicians.   RESULTS There were 34,961 pediatric patients; 16,311 (47%) presented before and 18,650 (53%) after opening the pediatric ED. Overall radiologic imaging decreased (42.5% vs. 39.3%; difference, 3.2%; 95% confidence interval [95% CI], 2.1%-4.2%) as did computed tomography (8.9% vs. 7.6%; difference, 1.2%; 95% CI, 0.7%-1.8%) but not magnetic resonance imaging. Laboratory testing decreased from 33.1% to 30.1% (difference, 3%; 95% CI, 2.1%-4.0%) of patients. Mean [SD] ED LOS (3.1 [2.5] vs. 2.8 [2.2] hours; difference, 0.36; 95% CI, 0.31-0.41) as well as the rate of LWBS (1.0% vs. 0.6%; difference, 0.4%; 95% CI, 0.2%-0.5%) also decreased. Admission rates (9.4% vs. 9.4%) and unscheduled return visits within 72 hours (3.2% vs. 3.5%) were unchanged. Mean (SD) monthly satisfaction scores increased from 81.3 (2.2) to 86.3 (2.2) (difference, 5; 95% CI, 3%-7%).   CONCLUSIONS Opening of a pediatric ED with pediatric emergency physicians was associated with decreases in ED LOS, rates of LWBS, general radiographic, and computed tomography imaging as well as laboratory testing, and increases in patient satisfaction scores. The clinical significance of these changes is unclear.
Venous thromboembolism [TE] is a multifactorial disease, and protein S deficiency [PSD] constitutes a major risk factor. In the present study the prevalence of PSD and the clinical presentation at TE onset in a cohort of children is reported. In 367 unselected paediatric patients with TE (age 0.1-18 years) recruited between July 1996 and December 2013, a comprehensive thrombophilia screening was performed along with recording of anamnestic data. Thirty of 367 paediatric patients (8.2%) derived from 27 families had PSD. Mean age at first TE onset was 14.5 years (range 0.1 to 18). Thrombotic locations were cerebral veins (n=8), calf vein TE (n=3) deep veins (DVT) of the leg (n=12), DVT & pulmonary embolism (n=5) and intra-cardiac veins (n=1) or purpura fulminans (n=1). PSD co-occurred with the factor 5 mutation at rs6025 or the homozygous factor 2 susceptibility variant at rs1799963 in one case each. The Heerlen polymorphism detected in five children presented with milder PSD. In 18 patients (60%) a concomitant risk factor for TE was identified. A second TE event within primarily healthy siblings occurred in three of 27 PSD families (11.0%). In this cohort of children with symptomatic TE, the prevalence of PSD adjusted for family status was 7.4%. Given its clinical implication for patients and family members, thrombophilia testing should be performed and the benefit of medical or educational interventions should be evaluated in this high-risk population.
Just as there is a range of paediatric imaging techniques available during life, a similar repertoire is available as part of the foetal and perinatal postmortem examination. In this article, we review the literature regarding the diagnostic utility of postmortem radiography, US, CT and MRI in this clinical setting. There is limited direct evidence on the diagnostic utility of any of these techniques, apart from postmortem MRI, which when combined with other noninvasive investigations, has been shown to be highly sensitive and specific for many foetal postmortem diagnoses. The main disadvantages of postmortem MRI include the longer duration of imaging, the need for appropriate training in the interpretation of normal postmortem changes, and possible non-diagnostic imaging examinations in early gestation foetuses. As less-invasive autopsy becomes increasingly available, the true utility of these techniques will evolve, and clinical guidelines for maximal diagnostic yield can be developed.
Two recent policy statements, one from the American Academy of Pediatrics and one from the American College of Medical Genetics, reach very different conclusions about the question of whether children should be tested for adult-onset genetic conditions. The American Academy of Pediatrics policy begins with the presumption that genetic testing for children should be driven by the best interest of the child. It recognizes the importance of preserving the child's open future, recommending that genetic testing for adult-onset diseases be deferred. The American College of Medical Genetics, by contrast, recommended testing children for at least some adult conditions, although it should be noted they have recently modified this recommendation. They justified this recommendation by arguing that it, in fact, was in the best interests of the child and family to receive this information. In this article, we analyze these 2 different positions and suggest ways that the seeming conflicts between them might be reconciled.
This article explores the use of the best interest standard in the context of third-party interventions in ongoing parent-child relationships. I start by examining the history of the best interest standard and show that it has had different meanings in different eras. I then address the nature of the family and the question of whether interests beyond those addressed in the child's best interest standard are a legitimate part of family decision-making. I conclude that ongoing families are entitled to at least a measure of deference in their decisions about their children. Third-party interventions, such as those of doctors or judges, should require something more than simply a difference of opinion about where the child's interests lie.
We argue that the 'best interest standard' for surrogate decision-making is problematic for a number of reasons. First, reliance on the best interest standard is subjective. Second, it leads to behavior that is intolerant and polarizing. Third, appeals to the best interest standard are often vague and indeterminate. After all, cases are usually controversial precisely because reasonable people disagree about what is or is not in a child's best interest. We then recommend that, instead of the best interest standard, parents should be held to a standard that we call the 'not unreasonable' standard. By that standard, parents' decisions would be respected unless they were deemed unreasonable. This recommendation would allow a greater range for parental discretion than the best interest standard.
Whose interests should count and how should various interests be balanced at the pediatric patient's bedside? The interests of the child patient clearly count. Recently, however, many authors have argued that the family's interests also count. But how should we think about the interests of others? What does it mean to talk about 'the family' in this context? Does it really just mean the interests of each individual family member? Or is the family itself a moral entity that has interests of its own independent of the interests of each of its members? Are such interests important only as they affect the patient's interest or also for their own sake? In this special supplement to Pediatrics, a group of pediatricians, philosophers, and lawyers grapple with these questions. They examine these issues from different angles and reach different conclusions. Jointly, they demonstrate the ethical importance and, above all, the ethical complexity of the family's role at the bedside.
In this article, I distinguish between 4 models for thinking about how to balance the interests of parents, families, and a sick child: (1) the oxygen mask model; (2) the wide interests model; (3) the family interests model; and (4) the direct model. The oxygen mask model - which takes its name from flight attendants' directives to parents to put on their own oxygen mask before putting on their child's - says that parents should consider their own interests only insofar as doing so is, ultimately, good for the sick child. The wide interests model suggests that in doing well by my child I am at the very same time doing well by myself. My interests can, and plausibly do, encompass the interests of others; they are, to that extent, wide. There is, then, no sharp separation between the interests of the sick child and the interests of other family members. In the family interests model, families themselves are seen as having interests that are neither identical to the sum, nor a simple function, of the interests of individual family members. The family has goals, values, and aspirations that are essentially corporate rather than individual. According to this model, these family interests can explain why sacrifices can sometimes be demanded of some family members for the sake of others in a medical setting. Finally, the direct model takes a simpler view of family members' interests; it claims that these interests matter simply on their own and should be taken into account in making treatment decisions for a sick child. This model openly considers the competing interests that parents and other family members often have when caring for a sick child, and advocates for weighing those interests when making decisions for and about the sick child. While there is room for all four models at the bedside, I argue that the direct model should be highlighted in clinical decision-making.
The 2014 National Residency Matching Program짰 results reveal that the number of family medicine positions offered in the Match짰 by programs accredited by the Accreditation Council on Graduate Medical Education has increased compared to 2013 (3,132 versus 3,062), while the total of all other primary care specialties combined has remained unchanged (784). The number of US seniors matching into family medicine also increased in 2014 over the prior year (1,416 versus 1,374). The percentage of US seniors who matched into family medicine programs grew modestly in 2014 compared to 2013 (8.6% versus 8.4%). Approximately four out of five primary care positions offered in the Match are in family medicine residency programs (3,132 versus 784). Similarly, three out of four US seniors matching into a primary care specialty match into a family medicine program (1,416 versus 520). By way of comparison, nearly five times the number of US seniors matched into family medicine as compared to medicine-pediatrics, the next largest primary care specialty.
BACKGROUND Three reports in 2013 about healthcare and patient safety in the UK, namely Berwick, Francis and Keogh have highlighted the need for junior doctors' views about their training experience to be heard. In the UK, the General Medical Council (GMC) quality assures medical training programmes and requires postgraduate deaneries to undertake quality management and monitoring of all training posts in their area. The aim of this study was to develop a simple trainee questionnaire for evaluation of postgraduate training posts based on the GMC, UK standards and to look at the reliability and validity including comparison with a well-established and internationally validated tool, the Postgraduate Hospital Educational Environment Measure (PHEEM).   METHODS The Job Evaluation Survey Tool (JEST), a fifteen item job evaluation questionnaire was drawn up in 2006, piloted with Foundation doctors (2007), field tested with specialist paediatric registrars (2008) and used over a three year period (2008-11) by Foundation Doctors. Statistical analyses including descriptives, reliability, correlation and factor analysis were undertaken and JEST compared with PHEEM.   RESULTS The JEST had a reliability of 0.91 in the pilot study of 76 Foundation doctors, 0.88 in field testing of 173 Paediatric specialist registrars and 0.91 in three years of general use in foundation training with 3367 doctors completing JEST. Correlation of JEST with PHEEM was 0.80 (p<0.001). Factor analysis showed two factors, a teaching factor and a social and lifestyle one.   CONCLUSION The JEST has proved to be a simple, valid and reliable evaluation tool in the monitoring and evaluation of postgraduate hospital training posts.
OBJECT The application of bibliometric techniques to academic neurosurgery has been the focus of several recent publications. The authors provide here a detailed analysis of all active pediatric neurosurgeons in North America and their respective departments.   METHODS Using Scopus and Google Scholar, a bibliometric profile for every known active pediatric neurosurgeon in North America was created using the following citation metrics: h-, contemporary h-, g-, and e-indices and the m-quotient. Various subgroups were compared. Departmental productivity from 2008 through 2013 was measured, and departments were ranked on the basis of cumulative h- and e-indices and the total number of publications and citations. Lorenz curves were created, and Gini coefficients were calculated for all departments with 4 or more members.   RESULTS Three hundred twelve pediatric neurosurgeons (260 male, 52 female) were included for analysis. For the entire group, the median h-index, m-quotient, contemporary h-, g-, and e-indices, and the corrected g- and e-indices were 10, 0.59, 7, 18, 17, 1.14, and 1.01, respectively; the range for each index varied widely. Academic pediatric neurosurgeons associated with fellowship programs (compared with unassociated neurosurgeons), academic practitioners (compared with private practitioners), and men (compared with women) had superior measurements. There was no significant difference between American and Canadian pediatric neurosurgeons. The mean Gini coefficient for publications was 0.45 (range 0.18-0.70) and for citations was 0.53 (range 0.25-0.80).   CONCLUSIONS This study represents the most exhaustive evaluation of academic productivity for pediatric neurosurgeons in North America to date. These results should serve as benchmarks for future studies.
INTRODUCTION The use of natural health products by pediatric patients is common, yet health care providers often do not provide management guidance. The purpose of this project was to improve management of natural health products by pediatric nurse practitioners.   METHOD Pediatric nurse practitioners from large metropolitan city were recruited (n = 32). A paired pretest-posttest design was used. Study participants were engaged to improve knowledge of natural health products, and a management toolkit was created and tested.   RESULTS Mean knowledge scores increased from 59.19 to 76.3 (p < .01). Management practices improved with regard to patient guidance (p < .01) and resource utilization (p < .01). Assessments of product use (p = .51) and drug/herb interactions (p = .35) were not significant.   DISCUSSION This investigation is the first known study to improve knowledge and management of natural health products in pediatric clinical practice.
BACKGROUND Paediatric genomic research raises particularly challenging questions on whether and under what circumstances to return research results. In the paediatric context, decision-making is guided by the best interests of the child framework, as enshrined in the 1989 international Convention on the Rights of the Child. According to this Convention, rights and responsibilities are shared between children, parents, researchers, and the state. These 'relational' obligations are further complicated in the context of genetic research.   DISCUSSION A comparative review of international, regional and national documents on the return of research results reveals that there is a dearth of normative documents in the paediatric context. The best interests of the child framework is increasingly complicated by a growing appreciation of pediatric autonomy and the development thereof; parental rights (particularly when parents are affected by the genomic information of their children); and the right not to know.   SUMMARY This comparative analysis reveals that policy-makers and legislators have responded to the above challenges in different ways. Nevertheless, in Europe as well as in Canada, there is an emerging trend towards making the return of certain results mandatory in the paediatric context, should this course of action prove to be in the best interests of the child.
BACKGROUND Urinalysis is the most commonly performed biochemical test in infancy and early childhood. The urine sample should be correctly obtained, age-specific aspects should be considered, and age-dependent reference values should be used.   METHOD This review is based on a selective literature search in electronic databases, textbooks, and guidelines from Germany and abroad on the acquisition of urine samples and the performance of urinalysis in infancy and early childhood.   RESULTS The timing and mode of acquisition of the urine sample affect the assessment of hematuria, proteinuria, leukocyturia, nitrituria, and the uropathogenic bacterial colony count in the urine culture. Dipstick tests can be used for targeted screening for these features. The test results should be interpreted together with the findings of urine microscopy, the medical history, and the physical examination. Proteinuria should be quantified and differentiated; both of these things can be done either from collected urine or (especially in infants and young children) from a spontaneously voided urine sample, by determination of the protein/creatinine quotient. Orthostatic proteinuria in an adolescent requires no further evaluation or treatment. Hematuria should be characterized as either glomerular or non-glomerular erythrocyturia. Asymptomatic, isolated microhematuria in childhood is not uncommon and often transient; in the absence of a family history, it usually does not require an extensive work-up. Proteinuria combined with hematuria should arouse the suspicion of glomerulonephritis.   CONCLUSION Urinalysis in infancy and early childhood is a simple and informative diagnostic test as long as the urine sample has been obtained properly and the results are interpreted appropriately for this age group.
INTRODUCTION Male circumcision is one of the most commonly performed surgical procedures worldwide and a subject that has been the center of considerable debate. Recently, the American Association of Pediatrics released a statement affirming that the medical benefits of neonatal circumcision outweigh the risks. At present, however, the majority of the literature on circumcision is based on research that is not necessarily applicable to North American populations, as it fails to take into account factors likely to influence the interpretability and applicability of the results.   AIMS The purpose of this review is to draw attention to the gaps within the circumcision literature that need to be addressed before significant changes to public policy regarding neonatal circumcision are made within North America.   METHODS A literature review of peer-reviewed journal articles was performed.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES The main outcome measure was the state of circumcision research, especially with regard to new developments in the field, as it applies to North American populations.   RESULTS This review highlights considerable gaps within the current literature on circumcision. The emphasis is on factors that should be addressed in order to influence research in becoming more applicable to North American populations. Such gaps include a need for rigorous, empirically based methodologies to address questions about circumcision and sexual functioning, penile sensitivity, the effect of circumcision on men's sexual partners, and reasons for circumcision. Additional factors that should be addressed in future research include the effects of age at circumcision (with an emphasis on neonatal circumcision) and the need for objective research outcomes.   CONCLUSION Further research is needed to inform policy makers, health-care professionals, and stakeholders (parents and individuals invested in this debate) with regard to the decision to perform routine circumcision on male neonates in North America.
BACKGROUND Depressive and anxiety disorders are among the most frequently occurring psychiatric conditions in children and adolescents and commonly present occur together. Co-occurring depression and anxiety is associated with increased functional impairment and suicidality compared to depression alone. Despite this, little is known regarding the neurostructural differences between anxiety disorders and major depressive disorder (MDD). Moreover, the neurophysiologic impact of the presence of anxiety in adolescents with MDD is unknown.   METHODS Using voxel-based morphometry, gray matter volumes were compared among adolescents with MDD (and no co-morbid anxiety disorders, n=14), adolescents with MDD and co-morbid anxiety ('anxious depression,' n=12), and healthy comparison subjects (n=41).   RESULTS Patients with anxious depression exhibited decreased gray matter volumes in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) compared to patients with MDD alone. Compared to healthy subjects, adolescents with anxious depression had increased gray matter volumes in the pre- and post-central gyri.   LIMITATIONS The current sample size was small and precluded an analysis of multiple covariates which may influence GMV.   CONCLUSIONS Gray matter deficits in the DLPFC in youth with anxious depression compared to patients with MDD and no co-occurring anxiety may reflect the more severe psychopathology in these patients. Additionally, the distinct gray matter fingerprints of MDD and anxious depression (compared to healthy subjects) suggest differing neurophysiologic substrates for these conditions, though the etiology and longitudinal trajectory of the differences remain to be determined.
The article examines the work of the first head of the Children's Hospital St. Zinaida at Sumy--Alexander Fedorovich Belousov. We considered his contribution to the organization of the first children's hospital in Sumy region and the creation of specialized pediatric services for children population in the Sloboda Ukraine. The article describes the personal role of A. F. Belousov in improving medical and sanitary care in a difficult socio-economic situation of the majority of citizens of the Russian Empire in the late 19th-early 20th century.
As our ability to diagnosis cardiomyopathy matures and genetic testing becomes more widespread, there has been an increase in the number of children followed for cardiomyopathy. The purpose of this study was to compare health-related quality of life (HRQoL) between children with cardiomyopathy and healthy controls and with children seen in clinic who are at risk for the development of cardiomyopathy. Patient and parent-proxy perspectives were obtained using the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL(TM)) 4.0 Core Scales (ages 2-18혻years) and the disease-specific Cardiac Module. Cardiomyopathy physicians' perceptions of the impact of cardiomyopathy on the functional status of the patients were collected. In addition, data regarding disease-specific medical and socioeconomic information were collected from chart review and parental report. The questionnaires were completed by 100 parent-proxies and 71 children. The PedsQL(TM) scores reported by children and their parent-proxies were compared to scores reported by pediatric norms. Compared to healthy controls, patients followed in a pediatric cardiomyopathy clinic scored lower in Total score when compared to pediatric norms (80.7 vs 86.4, p혻=혻0.002). Interestingly, children with a family history of cardiomyopathy who are at risk for developing the disease scored similar to those children with a diagnosis of cardiomyopathy. Parental and patients perceptions were discrepant when compared, which may deter appropriate referral to behavioral health services. These results should encourage cardiomyopathy clinics to screen all patients for HRQoL impairments and to have behavioral services available to assist these children.
Overdiagnosis occurs when a true abnormality is discovered, but detection of that abnormality does not benefit the patient. It should be distinguished from misdiagnosis, in which the diagnosis is inaccurate, and it is not synonymous with overtreatment or overuse, in which excess medication or procedures are provided to patients for both correct and incorrect diagnoses. Overdiagnosis for adult conditions has gained a great deal of recognition over the last few years, led by realizations that certain screening initiatives, such as those for breast and prostate cancer, may be harming the very people they were designed to protect. In the fall of 2014, the second international Preventing Overdiagnosis Conference will be held, and the British Medical Journal will produce an overdiagnosis-themed journal issue. However, overdiagnosis in children has been less well described. This special article seeks to raise awareness of the possibility of overdiagnosis in pediatrics, suggesting that overdiagnosis may affect commonly diagnosed conditions such as attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, bacteremia, food allergy, hyperbilirubinemia, obstructive sleep apnea, and urinary tract infection. Through these and other examples, we discuss why overdiagnosis occurs and how it may be harming children. Additionally, we consider research and education strategies, with the goal to better elucidate pediatric overdiagnosis and mitigate its influence.
In 2008 Ontario, Canada the Goudge Inquiry arose following increasing concerns about practices surrounding forensic pathology and the investigation of paediatric deaths. Some of the considerations and recommendations have relevance to child protection/forensic paediatricians, particularly in relation to their responsibilities in opinion formulation and as expert witnesses. By examining the Inquiry recommendations, this paper applies them in relation to child protection/forensic paediatrics by discussing forensic medicine and its legal context, how interpretation of published reports and data should be used in opinion formulation; issues of 'diagnosis' versus 'opinion'; issues specific to child protection paediatrics; quality control; aspects of report writing and terminological considerations. It concludes with an adaptation of key recommendations directly from those of Goudge, applied to the context of paediatric forensic medicine undertaken in child protection assessments.
PURPOSE To examine the relationship between quality improvement activities with pediatric and adult primary care practices and improvements in transition from pediatric to adult care.   METHODS This was a time-series comparative study of changes in pediatric and adult practices involving five large pediatric and adult academic health centers in the District of Columbia. Using the Health Care Transition Index (pediatric and adult versions), we examined improvements in specific indicators of transition performance, including development of an office transition policy, provider knowledge and skills related to transition, identification of transitioning youth, transition preparation of youth, transition planning, and transfer of care.   RESULTS Improvements took place in all six transition quality indicators in the pediatric and adult practices that participated in a 2-year learning collaborative to implement the 'Six Core Elements of Health Care Transition,' a quality improvement intervention modeled after the American Academy of Pediatrics/American Academy of Family Physicians/American College of Physicians Clinical Report on Transition. All sites established a practice-wide policy on transition and created an organized clinical process for tracking transition preparation. The pediatric sites conducted transition readiness assessments with 88% of eligible youth and prepared transition plans for 29% of this group. The adult sites conducted transition readiness assessments with 73% of eligible young adults and developed plans for 33%. A total of 50 were transferred in a systematic way to adult primary care practices.   CONCLUSIONS Quality improvement using the Six Core Elements of Health Care Transition resulted in the development of a systematic clinical transition process in pediatric and adult academic primary care practices.
CLINICAL COMMISSIONING groups (CCGs) are failing to drive improvements in children's continence care, according to the Paediatric Continence Forum (PCF).
PURPOSE Coaching is mainstream in business and is expanding into paediatric health care. With the focus on evidence-informed health practice, it is imperative to identify the key active components of interventions. Coaching is by definition a complex intervention with numerous components. The purpose of this critical review is to determine how coaching is currently defined, its prevalence in paediatric health care services and the frequency of the active components of coaching and to consider the findings of research to date.   METHOD A critical review of the literature was conducted. Inclusion/exclusion criteria were based on the International Coach Federation, which stipulates that coaching is a collaborative process that involves client-centred goal setting, facilitation, self-discovery and capacity building. Seventeen studies were selected for thorough review.   RESULTS Throughout the literature, there was inconsistency in how coaching was defined. Studies included various components, but overall the literature lacked cohesion.   CONCLUSION To advance the field, a list of components that foster client engagement was developed along with a comprehensive definition of coaching involving affective, behavioural and cognitive components and a path of research necessary to evaluate this complex intervention. Implications for Rehabilitation A comprehensive approach to coaching involves consideration of multiple components. A coaching approach can enhance engagement in rehabilitation interventions. The operationalization of holistic ABC coaching that encapsulates the important components, which are affective, behavioural and cognitive in nature.
AIM We aimed to understand how changes in surgical techniques are transferred into surgical practice. We hypothesized that the integration of minimally invasive surgery (MIS) techniques into a pediatric surgical practice is dependent on the hiring of junior partners who can transfer their MIS knowledge to senior surgeons.   MATERIALS AND METHODS We reviewed the operative approach to six different general pediatric surgical procedures from 2000 to 2012, including appendectomy, fundoplication, gastrostomy tube placement, pyloromyotomy, colectomy, and lobectomy (lung). The percentage of MIS cases was calculated for each procedure annually. Each year six to nine fellowship-trained pediatric surgeons operated at our institution. Three surgeons completed training in the era of MIS (hired in 2001, 2007, and 2009) and remained on staff for at least 3 years.   RESULTS In 2000, 49% of procedures were performed with MIS. This increased to 98% in 2013 (P<.0001). Appendectomy, pyloromyotomy, and fundoplication demonstrated early adoption and uniform use of laparoscopy (>85%) by 2007. Gastrostomy tube placement reached 90% laparoscopy utilization in 2009. Lobectomy (lung) and colectomy also reached >80% MIS use in 2009 and 2010, respectively. The same trends were seen when looking only at senior surgeons who completed training prior to 2000.   CONCLUSIONS The hiring of junior surgeons with MIS training was associated with an increase in adoption of MIS techniques by the entire group. Procedures that were introduced early in the MIS era demonstrated a gradual rise toward uniform adoption of MIS techniques. More advanced and recently adopted MIS techniques demonstrated a rapid rise to uniform adoption.
The application of thoracoscopic surgical techniques to pediatric solid tumors represents an important adjunctive tool for the surgical management of childhood cancer. Nearly four decades has passed since the introduction of minimally invasive chest surgery in children, and although the adoption of minimally invasive surgery in general pediatric surgical practice is better recognized, its role in pediatric oncology is still considered a developing field. As no consensus exists regarding the use of thoracoscopy for pediatric thoracic solid tumors, the purpose of this article is to review the current literature surrounding the use of thoracoscopic interventions in pediatric oncology and examine established indications, procedures, and technologic advances.
INTRODUCTION Despite appendicitis being one of the most common surgical emergencies in the pediatric population, there is still a great deal of debate among pediatric surgeons regarding the workup and treatment.   MATERIALS AND METHODS In an interactive Web symposium consisting of 130 pediatric surgeons from various regions of the world, questions about diagnosis and management of appendicitis were displayed on the screen. The audience was asked to respond to the poll questions. The questions asked to the participants pertained to an example case of a 12-year-old boy presenting to the emergency department with the classic history and exam for appendicitis.   RESULTS The total number of respondents varied between 30 and 37, giving response rates of 23%-28%. Sixty-six percent of respondents would not order imaging. Thirty-one percent said that they would order ultrasound. No participant would order a computed tomography scan, whereas 5% would order some other form. Ninety-five percent of respondents said that they would treat the patient operatively. The majority (89%) of the participants felt comfortable waiting until morning to operate on the patient if the patient arrived at 11 p.m. Fifty-seven percent stated that they would use a three-port laparoscopic approach, and 38% would use a single port, whereas 5% would use an open surgical approach. The majority (34%) reported being able to visualize the appendix as the greatest benefit to using laparoscopy. Fifty-seven percent would give the patient one additional dose of antibiotics and then discharge him 24 hours later following treatment for acute, nonperforated appendicitis. Twenty percent of respondents would give no further antibiotics and would discharge the patient from the recovery room or soon after. Sixteen percent would not give any additional antibiotics and would discharge him 24 hours postoperatively, whereas 6% would give one additional dose of antibiotics and discharge him soon after.   CONCLUSIONS The use of virtual broadcasts affords a unique opportunity to surgeons around the world to share and learn from each other.
BACKGROUND The general concept of therapeutic patient education (TPE), defined by the European Office of the World Health Organization (WHO) in 1998, could be questionable when applied to children due to the many specificities of this population in the field of health and education.   AIM To identify the specificities of therapeutic patient education applied to the paediatric population.   METHODS Concept analysis is based on Rodgers' 5-activities method: 1) Identifying the concept 2) selecting the appropriate realm of literature 3) collecting data from selected publications 4) analysing the results to determine the characteristics of the concept studied 5) discussion of the implications and prospects for development of the concept.   RESULTS Thirty-five publications were included in this concept clarification. Five attributes emerged: relational triad, collaborative partnership, adaptation of learning, gradual and progressive acquisition of skills, and creativity.   DISCUSSION The results of this first concept analysis shed light on the process of knowledge transfer over time. The five characteristics, consistent with the field of health promotion, could be strengthened by a grounded theory.
This qualitative study presents results from a development project of clinical communication skills training for physicians in a paediatric ward. Overall, the doctors express that the training positively supports their clinical work and that it provides a model for discussing communication challenges with colleagues. Challenges, however, are time constraints and overcoming conventional hierarchical structures. Prerequisites for ward-based communication training thus are: a suitable timeframe, use of a structured feedback model, managerial backup, and support from external expertise.
OBJECTIVE Australia's response to refugees and people seeking asylum is a matter of national debate. We sought to determine the knowledge and attitudes of paediatricians about refugee and asylum seeker issues (both onshore and offshore).   DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS In November 2013, we emailed a questionnaire web link to all Australian general and community paediatricians registered with the Royal Australasian College of Physicians.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Proportion of respondents by demographic characteristics using (2) and Fisher exact test (慣혻=혻0.05).   RESULTS There were 139 respondents (response rate, 40.5%). Respondents' characteristics were broadly representative of all Australian general paediatricians. Over 80% correctly used the term 'asylum seeker' rather than 'boat person' or 'illegal immigrant' for children applying for protection. Over 80% agreed with the Australian Medical Association assertion that mandatory detention of children constitutes child abuse, and disagreed with offshore processing. Less than half knew which subgroups were eligible for Medicare or had had pre-departure HIV and tuberculosis screening tests; or that the average stay in refugee camps before settlement in Australia was more than 10 years. Only about 60% knew that the Minister for Immigration and Citizenship was the legal guardian of detained unaccompanied minors. One in eight knew about the Medicare eligibility hotline. Respondents' sex, where their medical degree was obtained, frequency of seeing refugees and asylum seekers and years of experience had little association with responses.   CONCLUSIONS Australian paediatricians considered mandatory detention a form of child abuse and strongly disagreed with offshore processing. There is a clear need for education about practical issues such as current health screening practices and Medicare eligibility.
OBJECTIVE Emergency medical services (EMS) providers may have critical knowledge gaps in pediatric care due to lack of exposure and training. There is currently little evidence to guide educators to the knowledge gaps that most need to be addressed to improve patient safety. The objective of this study was to identify educational needs of EMS providers related to pediatric care in various domains in order to inform development of curricula.   METHODS The Children's Safety Initiative-EMS performed a three-phase Delphi survey on patient safety in pediatric emergencies among providers and content experts in pediatric emergency care, including physicians, nurses, and prehospital providers of all levels. Each round included questions related to educational needs of providers or the effect of training on patient safety events. We identified knowledge gaps in the following domains: case exposure, competency and knowledge, assessment and decision making, and critical thinking and proficiency. Individual knowledge gaps were ranked by portion of respondents who ranked them 'highly likely' (Likert-type score 7-10 out of 10) to contribute to safety events.   RESULTS There were 737 respondents who were included in analysis of the first phase of the survey. Paramedics were 50.8% of respondents, EMT-basics/first responders were 22%, and physicians 11.4%. The top educational priorities identified in the final round of the survey include pediatric airway management, responder anxiety when working with children, and general pediatric skills among providers. The top three needs in decision-making include knowing when to alter plans mid-course, knowing when to perform an advanced airway, and assessing pain in children. The top 3 technical or procedural skills needs were pediatric advanced airway, neonatal resuscitation, and intravenous/intraosseous access. For neonates, specific educational needs identified included knowing appropriate vital signs and preventing hypothermia.   CONCLUSIONS This is the first large-scale Delphi survey related to pediatric prehospital education. Our results provide foundational information related to the educational needs of prehospital providers. Medical directors and educators can use the results to shape future curricular development.
PURPOSE In order to presurgically define the anatomical location of the epileptogenic zone (EZ) and its proximity to possible cortical and subcortical eloquent areas in pediatric patients with medically intractable focal epilepsy, an array of noninvasive tools are available: recorded seizure semiology, scalp electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings (ictal and interictal epileptic patterns), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET), ictal single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), neuropsychological testing, and/or magnetoencephalography. When the noninvasive tools fail or are insufficient in precisely localizing the EZ and its functional and anatomical interphase with potential eloquent cortical areas, invasive extra-operative monitoring procedures might be needed.   DISCUSSION In this chapter, we will discuss the main goals of extra-operative invasive evaluation for children with medically intractable epilepsy in whom cortical dysplasia is a possible etiology. We will specifically discuss the possible indications, surgical strategies, results, and morbidity associated with the placement of subdural and stereoelectroencephalography (SEEG) electrodes. The rationale behind the choice of each one of the above techniques will also be discussed.
The stereoelectroencephalophraphy (SEEG) method was developed in France by Jean Tailarach and Jean Bancaud during the 50s and has been mostly used in France and Italy, as the method of choice for extraoperative invasive mapping in refractory focal epilepsy. Subsequently, for more than 60혻years, SEEG has shown to be a valuable tool for preoperative decision-making in focal epilepsy. Nevertheless, there are few reports addressing the utility and safety of the SEEG methodology applied to children and adolescents. In this chapter, we will discuss the current results of SEEG in pediatric patients with difficult to localize epilepsy. Details regarding surgical technique and clinical results will be presented.
PURPOSE The purpose of this study is to describe common indications and technique for the application of chronic invasive electrodes in the pediatric patient suffering from medically intractable epilepsy.   METHODS This chapter was prepared based on a retrospective review of the literature and personal experience based from a large tertiary epilepsy center.   CONCLUSIONS Invasive subdural recordings are a safe and efficacious tool to identify the epileptogenic zone and its relationship to functional cortex in highly selected patients with medically refractory epilepsy. The ability to localize the EZ approaches 90 to 100혻%, but seizure-free outcome is more complex depending greatly on the experience of the surgical team and the extent of resection.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE Epilepsy surgery for medically refractory epilepsy secondary to cortical dysplasia in children poses special challenges. We aim to review the current available literature on the outcome after epilepsy surgery for cortical dysplasia in children and critically evaluate the prognostic predictors of outcome.   METHODS A comprehensive review of the literature was performed focusing on the outcome after epilepsy surgery for cortical dysplasia in children. Two large recent meta-analyses that included children and adults and several pediatric series of cortical dysplasia in children were reviewed.   RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS The overall seizure freedom rates range from 40 to 73 %, at about 2 years after surgery; most studies report 50-55% success rate. Complete resection of the epileptogenic lesion/zone remains the most important variable predictive of postoperative seizure freedom. Features unique to cortical dysplasia that limits our ability to ensure complete resection of the epileptogenic zone are reviewed.
There are several organizations that have published statements related to concussion management especially as it relates to cognitive rest. A review of these statements reveals that this issue is more complicated than proposed. Further research is needed to establish (1) the type and severity of concussion symptoms that may benefit from cognitive rest, if any, and the (2) type, degree, and duration of cognitive rest. Parents need to be counseled that definitive recommendations about cognitive rest are not currently based on sufficient research to make specific recommendations for every child with a concussion. This issue has important clinical and medicolegal ramifications to practitioners.
Cerebral palsy is the most common cause of physical disability in children worldwide. However, little is reported on this condition in the African context. Doctors from 22 countries in Africa, and representatives from a further 5 countries outside Africa, met to discuss the challenges in the evaluation and management of children with cerebral palsy in Africa and to propose service needs and further research. Basic care is limited by the poor availability of diagnostic facilities or medical personnel with experience and expertise in managing cerebral palsy, exacerbated by lack of available interventions such as medications, surgical procedures, or even regular therapy input. Relevant guidelines are lacking. In order to guide services for children with existing disabilities, to effectively target the main etiologies and to develop preventive strategies for the continent, research priorities must include multicenter collaborative studies looking at the prevalence, risk factors, and treatment of cerebral palsy.
BACKGROUND With the growing use of electronic health record systems, there is a demand for an electronic version of the leading American pediatric preventive care guideline, Bright Futures. As computer implementation requires actionable recommendations, it is important to assess to what degree Bright Futures meets criteria for actionability.   OBJECTIVES We aimed to 1) determine the number of actionable recommendations in the current edition of Bright Futures and 2) to recommend a specific format for representing an important class of guidelines in a way that better facilitates computer implementation.   METHODS We consolidated all action statements in Bright Futures into recommendations. We then used two dimensions (decidability and executability) in the Guideline Implementability Appraisal v 2.0 (GLIA) to determine the actionability of the recommendations. Decidability means the recommendation states precisely under what conditions to perform those actions. Executability means actions are stated specifically, unambiguously and in sufficient detail. The results were presented in a figure titled Service Interval Diagram (SID), describing actionable recommendations, age intervals during which they are applicable, and how frequently they should occur in that interval.   RESULTS We consolidated 2161 action items into 245 recommendations and identified 52 that were actionable (21%). Almost exclusively, these recommendations addressed screening, such as newborn metabolic screening, or child safety, such as car seat use. A limited number (n=13) of recommendations for other areas of anticipatory guidance were also actionable. No recommendations on child discipline, family function or mental health met our criteria for actionability. The SID representing these recommendations is presented in a figure.   CONCLUSION Only a portion of the Bright Futures Guidelines meets criteria for actionability. Substantial work lies ahead to develop most recommendations for anticipatory guidance into a computer implementable format.
BACKGROUND Many resident physicians have experienced transitioning from traditional paper documentation and ordering to an electronic process during their training.   OBJECTIVE We sought to investigate the attitudes and perceptions of residents related to implementation of computer provider order entry (CPOE) and clinical decision support (CDS).   METHODS Pediatric residents completed web-based surveys prior to CPOE implementation and at 6 months and 12 months after implementation. The survey assessed resident attitudes and perceptions related to CPOE and the use of CDS tools. Additionally, at 6 and 12 months, residents were asked how electronic medical record (EMR) resources might impact future career decisions.   RESULTS Prior to CPOE implementation, 70% of residents were looking forward to CPOE, but 28% did not want to transition from paper ordering. At 12 months post-implementation, 80% of residents favored CPOE over paper ordering and only 3.33% wished to revert to paper ordering. Residents reported an increase in time needed to enter admission orders 6-months after CPOE implementation. By 12 months post-implementation, there was no significant difference in perceived time to complete admission orders when compared to pre-CPOE responses. Most residents (91.67%) identified that overall EMR resources were an important factor when considering future employment opportunities. The most important factors included the degree of EMR implementation, technology resources and the amount of support staff. The least important factors included patient portal access and which EMR product is used.   CONCLUSIONS Overall, residents demonstrated a preference for CPOE compared to traditional paper order entry. Many residents remained unaware of CDS tools embedded within CPOE at the 12 month follow-up, but a majority of residents did find them helpful and felt more knowledgeable about current guidelines. EMR resources, including degree of EMR implementation, technology resources and support staff are likely to be important factors as residents take future employment opportunities into consideration.
BACKGROUND The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that palliative care be available to seriously ill hospitalized children, yet little is known about how these services are structured.   OBJECTIVE The study's aim is to report the prevalence of pediatric palliative care services (PCS) and compare the structure of pediatric PCS to adult PCS within California hospitals.   METHODS We surveyed 377 hospitals to assess the prevalence, structure, and characteristics of pediatric and adult PCS. Hospitals were categorized as children's hospitals with a pediatric-only PCS, mixed hospitals with pediatric and adult PCS, and hospitals with adult-only PCS.   RESULTS All 8 children's hospitals in the state reported having a pediatric PCS, and 36 pediatric PCSs were in mixed hospitals. Mixed hospitals saw fewer (p=0.0001) children per year (mean=5.6, standard deviation [SD]=3.6) than pediatric-only PCSs (mean=168, SD=73). Pediatric-only PCSs treated more patients for noncancer-related illness (82.5%) than pediatric PCSs in mixed hospitals (34.5%, p=0.03) or adult-only PCSs (52.4%, p=0.001). All PCSs were universally available (100%) during weekday business hours and half were available during weekend business hours. Pediatric-only PCSs had a mean total full-time equivalent (FTE) of 1.9, which was not significantly different (p=0.3) from the total FTE for pediatric PCSs in mixed hospitals (mean=1.1, SD=1.4) or for adult-only PCSs (mean=2.7, SD=2.0). However, in mixed hospitals the adult PCS had a significantly higher (p=0.005) total FTE (mean=2.4, SD=1.3) than the pediatric PCS (mean=1.1, SD=1.4).   CONCLUSION All children's hospital and a few mixed hospitals offer pediatric PCS. Better understanding of the palliative care needs of seriously ill children in mixed hospitals and assessment of the quality of care provided will help ensure that children seen in these hospitals receive necessary care.
Poor children are at greater risk for worse health, less productivity, and harms to well-being that extend into adulthood and subsequent generations. Timing and duration of poverty matter and influence life course outcomes, especially for education, health, and lifetime productivity. This article focuses on interventions by policy advocacy and the pediatric health system, and protection of the health and well-being of families in economic hardship from disadvantages and trauma wrought by poverty. A framework is presented for child poverty prevention and its consequences for lifelong health and success on a national scale.
The Affordable Care Act has caused and continues to cause sweeping changes throughout the health system in the United States. Poorly explained, complex, controversial, confusing, and subject to continuous legal and regulatory definition, the law stands as a hallmark piece of legislation that will change the health sector in America forever. This article summarizes the Affordable Care Act with a focus on children, families, and disparities. Also provided is the context of the current system of health care coverage in the United States.
BACKGROUND/PURPOSE This study aims to examine the characteristics of Taiwanese children with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and delineate the factors that lead to disease progression in this population.   METHODS We reviewed the records of the Taiwan Pediatric Renal Collaborative Study, a multicenter database of Taiwanese children with CKD. Multivariate regression analysis was used to identify the main factors associated with disease progression.   RESULTS A total of 382 children aged 1-18 years were included in the study (median age was 10.6 years; interquartile range: 6.4-13.8). There were 197 males (51.6%) and 185 females. CKD Stage 1 was diagnosed in 159 children (41.6%), Stage 2 in 160 (41.9%), Stage 3 in 51 (13.4%), and Stage 4 in 12 (3.1%). Fifty-six children (14.7%) experienced CKD progression. A multivariate analysis for all patients indicated that the risk for disease progression was increased in children with CKD secondary to a structural abnormality, genetic disease, anemia, elevated diastolic blood pressure, or elevated blood urea nitrogen. Compared with children with Stage 1 CKD, those with Stage 2 and Stage 4 CKD had decreased risk for CKD progression in this short-term cohort follow-up.   CONCLUSION CKD etiology affects disease progression. Careful monitoring and treatment of anemia and elevated blood pressure in children with CKD may slow disease progression.
STUDY OBJECTIVE We perform a needs assessment of pediatric readiness, using a novel scoring system in California emergency departments (EDs), and determine the effect of pediatric verification processes on pediatric readiness.   METHODS ED nurse managers from all 335 acute care hospital EDs in California were sent a 60-question Web-based assessment. A weighted pediatric readiness score (WPRS), using a 100-point scale, and gap analysis were calculated for each participating ED.   RESULTS Nurse managers from 90% (300/335) of EDs completed the Web-based assessment, including 51 pediatric verified EDs, 67 designated trauma centers, and 31 EDs assessed for pediatric capabilities. Most pediatric visits (87%) occurred in nonchildren's hospitals. The overall median WPRS was 69 (interquartile ratio [IQR] 57.7, 85.9). Pediatric verified EDs had a higher WPRS (89.6; IQR 84.1, 94.1) compared with nonverified EDs (65.5; IQR 55.5, 76.3) and EDs assessed for pediatric capabilities (70.7; IQR 57.4, 88.9). When verification status and ED volume were controlled for, trauma center designation was not predictive of an increase in the WPRS. Forty-three percent of EDs reported the presence of a quality improvement plan that included pediatric elements, and 53% reported a pediatric emergency care coordinator. When coordinator and quality improvement plan were controlled for, the presence of at least 1 pediatric emergency care coordinator was associated with a higher WPRS (85; IQR 75, 93.1) versus EDs without a coordinator (58; IQR 50.1, 66.9), and the presence of a quality improvement plan was associated with a higher WPRS (88; IQR 76.7, 95) compared with that of hospitals without a plan (62; IQR 51.2, 68.7). Of pediatric verified EDs, 92% had a quality improvement plan for pediatric emergency care and 96% had a pediatric emergency care coordinator.   CONCLUSION We report on the first comprehensive statewide assessment of 'pediatric readiness' in EDs according to the 2009 'Guidelines for Care of Children in the Emergency Department.' The presence of a pediatric readiness verification process, pediatric emergency care coordinator, and quality improvement plan for pediatric emergency care was associated with higher levels of pediatric readiness.
OBJECTIVE Studies indicate needed improvement in clinician communication and patient satisfaction. Motivational interviewing (MI) helps promote patient behavior change and improves satisfaction. In this pilot study, we tested a coaching intervention to teach MI to all clinic staff to improve clinician and patient satisfaction.   METHODS We included four clinics (n=29 staff members). In the intervention clinics (one primary care and one pediatric obesity-focused), we trained all clinic staff in MI through meetings as a group seven times, directly observing clinicians in practice 4-10 times, and providing real-time feedback on MI techniques. In all clinics, we assessed patient satisfaction via anonymous surveys and also assessed clinician burnout and self-rated MI skills.   RESULTS Clinicians in the intervention clinics reported improvements in burnout scores, self-rated MI skills, and perceived cohesion whereas clinicians in the control clinic reported worse scores. Patient satisfaction improved in the intervention clinics more than in the control clinics.   CONCLUSION This is the first study to find some benefit of training an entire clinic staff in MI via a coaching model.   PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS It might help to train staff in MI to improve clinician satisfaction, team cohesion, perceived skills, and patient satisfaction.
Over the past 30 years, much has been learned about the impact of development on drug disposition (i.e., pharmacokinetics). This is not true concerning drug action (i.e., pharmacodynamics). As a consequence, in clinical therapeutics and the drug development process, assumptions are often times made that a specific systemic drug exposure that is associated with desired drug action in adults will produce the same response in children. A review of the literature would suggest that this assumption may, in some cases, be an errant one. The relative paucity of information concerning developmental pharmacodynamics is associated with the challenge of assessing and quantitating drug response in vivo in infants and children. An approach to overcome these difficulties has been the evolution of biomarkers that are functional in nature in that they are capable of measuring drug response in both a time and age dependent fashion. The purpose of this review is to illustrate how functional biomarkers capable of assessing drug response/ effect in the developing child are developed and being evaluated for their clinical utility.
INTRODUCTION Using the pediatric version of the Simple Triage and Rapid Treatment (JumpSTART) algorithm for the triage of pediatric patients in a mass-casualty incident (MCI) requires assessing the results of each step and determining whether to move to the next appropriate action. Inappropriate application can lead to performance of unnecessary actions or failure to perform necessary actions. Hypothesis/Problem To report overall accuracy and time required for triage, and to assess if the performance of unnecessary steps, or failure to perform required steps, in the triage algorithm was associated with inaccuracy of triage designation or increased time to reach a triage decision.   METHODS Medical students participated in an MCI drill in which they triaged both live actors portraying patients and computer-based simulated patients to the four triage levels: minor, delayed, immediate, and expectant. Their performance was timed and compared to intended triage designations and a priori determined critical actions.   RESULTS Thirty-three students completed 363 scenarios. The overall accuracy was 85.7% and overall mean time to assign a triage designation was 70.4 seconds, with decreasing times as triage acuity level decreased. In over one-half of cases, the student omitted at least one action and/or performed at least one action that was not required. Each unnecessary action increased time to triage by a mean of 8.4 seconds and each omitted action increased time to triage by a mean of 5.5 seconds. Discussion Increasing triage level, performance of inappropriate actions, and omission of recommended actions were all associated with increasing time to perform triage.
Alcohol is the substance most frequently abused by children and adolescents in the United States, and its use is associated with the leading causes of death and serious injury at this age (ie, motor vehicle accidents, homicides, and suicides). Among youth who drink, the proportion who drink heavily is higher than among adult drinkers, increasing from approximately 50% in those 12 to 14 years of age to 72% among those 18 to 20 years of age. In this clinical report, the definition, epidemiology, and risk factors for binge drinking; the neurobiology of intoxication, blackouts, and hangovers; genetic considerations;and adverse outcomes are discussed. The report offers guidance for the pediatrician. As with any high-risk behavior, prevention plays a more important role than later intervention and has been shown to be more effective. In the pediatric office setting, it is important to ask every adolescent about alcohol use.
AIM The aim of this study was to develop clinically useful normative scores for the Pediatric Evaluation of Disability Inventory (PEDI) for children in Norway, and provide information on the relative difficulty level of individual test items.   METHODS Using PEDI protocols from 224 Norwegian children without disability, we computed and scrutinized the normative scores for their representativeness, and compared them with scores from 313 children in the original US PEDI sample. Item functioning was compared using Rasch model-based differential item functioning (DIF) analyses and comparisons of item mastery.   RESULTS The normative scores yielded consistent and regular results. The mean scores for each age group in the Norwegian sample were lower than in their US counterparts, and age mean plots ran parallel. However, this difference may be misleading for clinical use, as item comparisons revealed differences in both higher and lower directions between the samples for about a third of all items. Estimates of relative item difficulty for children in Norway were developed.   CONCLUSIONS Identifying potential differences when using an instrument in another culture is important to avoid a risk of over- or underestimating a child's capability. In addition, item response patterns are required to make national normative scores clinically useful.
BACKGROUND The options for treating femoral fractures in children and adolescents have evolved over the last 2 decades to include a variety of nonoperative and operative methods. The purpose of this study was to identify changes in the types of treatment for pediatric femoral fractures in the United States from 1997 to 2012.   METHODS From discharge estimates for 1997, 2000, 2003, 2006, 2009, and 2012 in the Kids' Inpatient Database, data were extracted using the International Classification of Diseases, 9th revision, and Clinical Modification for pediatric femoral fracture treatments. Patients included were 0 to 17 years old and were categorized into 5 age groups: younger than 1, 1 to 4, 5 to 9, 10 to 14, and 15 to 17 years.   RESULTS A total of 74,483 estimated discharges were recorded for pediatric patients with femoral fractures in the database for years 1997, 2000, 2003, 2006, 2009, and 2012. A total of 12,986 pediatric femoral fractures were estimated for 1997 and 9813 for 2012, which was statistically different (P<0.0001). Significantly fewer fractures were treated with closed reduction alone in 2012 than in 1997 in age groups 5 to 9, 10 to 14, and 15 to 17 years. Children aged 5 to 9 had more frequent open reduction and internal fixation in 2012 than in 1997, whereas adolescents aged 15 to 17 had less frequent open reduction and internal fixation in 2012 than in 1997.   CONCLUSIONS Although the number of femoral shaft fractures overall has decreased, the frequency of operative treatment has increased significantly in patients 5 to 9 years of age. Knowledge of these trends can guide educational efforts and resource allocation, but further study is necessary to determine procedure-specific (eg, nailing, plating, external fixation) trends and their clinical and economic impacts.   LEVEL OF EVIDENCE Level III-case series.
OBJECTIVE To elucidate whether there may be a higher morbidity threshold for African American versus white children to be referred to or seek asthma specialist care.   METHODS Secondary analysis of registry data captured from children presenting for an initial routine outpatient asthma consultation. Parents completed standard survey instruments, and spirometry was conducted when deemed appropriate by the provider.   RESULTS Wilcoxon rank sum tests revealed that African American patients had been hospitalized twice as often and admitted to the intensive care unit or intubated significantly more than 1쩍 times more frequently than their white patient counterparts. t tests indicated African American patients' forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) percentage predicted was significantly worse than that of whites, but there was no significant difference for FEV1/forced vital capacity ratio. t tests suggested that African American patients had statistically worse asthma control than did white patients at the time of initial presentation to the pulmonologist, but there was no difference in the distribution of asthma severity categories. Multivariate regression models indicated that racial differences in parent education did not explain the disparities in asthma morbidity.   CONCLUSIONS African American patients had significantly worse asthma morbidity than their white counterparts, including higher rates of hospitalization and intensive care unit admission and poorer lung functioning. Given that receipt of asthma specialist care can improve those outcomes that are disparately experienced by African American children, methods of increasing their access to and use of asthma specialist care need to be developed.
The prevalence of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries in skeletally immature athletes has increased dramatically over the past decade. Many attribute this to increased training, single-sport specialization and year-round competitive play. ACL injuries most commonly occur in athletic activities that involve cutting, pivoting, jumping and landing. Non-operative treatment consisting of activity modification, physical therapy and specialized bracing may have a role; however, recent data suggest that this may not be optimal in young, active patients. Surgical treatment has become more favorable, specifically for athletes with aspirations of higher-level sports participation. To minimize growth plate disturbances and potential for limb malalignment, the patient's skeletal age, pubertal status and remaining growth potential must be taken into consideration. We provide a review on how to evaluate, manage and treat the skeletally immature athlete with an ACL injury.
During the last decade, significant technological progress has taken place in the pediatric cardiac catheterization laboratory. Improved noninvasive diagnostic techniques have narrowed down the indications for diagnostic cardiac catheterization, and these techniques are now increasingly being applied to therapeutic procedures. Recently, concern has been raised about the appropriateness of some these applications in pediatric therapeutic cardiac catheterization because of sheer increase in number of techniques being applied, the increase in the number of persons and centers using these techniques, and the increase in the number of lesion types thought to be amenable to catheter therapy. In comparison to diagnostic cardiac catheterization, therapeutic catheterization require more time and resources, involve higher cost and risk, and demand more technical competence and expertise. Higher level of skill and competency is requirement for the operator who performs the various therapeutic catheterization techniques. These procedures should only be performed in institutions equipped with appropriate facilities, personnel, and programs. These considerations, combined with the rapid increase in the number of laboratories and cardiologists performing therapeutic catheterization procedures, raises concern about the safety of patients and human subjects as well as credentials of hospital and level of training and skill of physician involved. Therapeutic catheterization training programs vary in type, extent, and quality. Due to the complexity and potential risks of these procedures, specific skill and competency benchmark should be developed for personnel undergoing training in therapeutic catheterization as well as for those who continue to perform various procedures. Competency in therapeutic catheterization in children requires specific training. Pediatric cardiology fellows should receive therapeutic catheterization training in one or more centers that specializes in angioplasties, valvuloplasties, and/or vascular occlusion procedures. Before performing a therapeutic catheterization as the primary operator, the fellow or practicing pediatric cardiologist should be required to receive procedure-specific training under the supervision of a qualified individual. Credential should be procedure specific. To maintain his or her credentials and skills, the cardiologist should perform or supervise an adequate number of cases annually, and the results must compare favorably with national experience. The cardiologist must keep himself up to date of new trends and progress in the field through scientific reading and attendance of meetings. Interventional pediatric cardiology has grown remarkably over the last two decades. Catheter based interventional procedures have become the treatment of choice for many cardiac lesions, and these procedures serve as alternatives or adjuncts to surgical treatment for many other relevant conditions. Keeping with the pace of development worldwide, catheter based interventional procedures are making good progress in Bangladesh as well.
In recent years, much effort has been directed at redefining malnutrition in the pediatric population to include the acute clinical population in addition to the more traditional ambulatory populations. In 2013, an expert panel convened to perform a critical review of available literature to craft a new approach to malnutrition. Closely thereafter, the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and the American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition published recommended indicators for the identification and documentation of malnutrition in pediatric populations. The purpose of this article is to review the domains within the new definition of malnutrition in pediatric practice, describe populations in which the recommended indicators for identification and management are problematic in clinical practice, give case studies that apply the new definition, and finally describe the implementation of a malnutrition identification program within a large tertiary care children's hospital.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES Respiratory illnesses are the leading cause of pediatric hospitalizations in the United States, and a major focus of efforts to improve quality of care. Understanding factors associated with poor outcomes will allow better targeting of interventions for improving care. The objective of this study was to identify patient and hospital factors associated with prolonged length of stay (LOS) or complications during pediatric hospitalizations for asthma or lower respiratory infection (LRI).   METHODS Cross-sectional study of hospitalizations of patients <18 years with asthma or LRI (bronchiolitis, influenza, or pneumonia) by using the nationally representative 2012 Kids Inpatient Database. We used multivariable logistic regression models to identify factors associated with prolonged LOS (>90th percentile) or complications (noninvasive ventilation, mechanical ventilation, or death).   RESULTS For asthma hospitalizations(n = 85320), risks for both prolonged LOS and complications were increased with each year of age (adjusted odds ratio [AOR] 1.06, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.05-1.07; AOR 1.05, 95% CI 1.03-1.07, respectively for each outcome) and in children with chronic conditions (AOR 4.87, 95% CI 4.15-5.70; AOR 21.20, 95% CI 15.20-29.57, respectively). For LRI hospitalizations (n = 204950), risks for prolonged LOS and complications were decreased with each year of age (AOR 0.98, 95% CI 0.97-0.98; AOR 0.95, 95% CI 0.94-0.96, respectively) and increased in children with chronic conditions (AOR 9.86, 95% CI 9.03-10.76; AOR 56.22, 95% CI 46.60-67.82, respectively). Risks for prolonged LOS for asthma were increased in large hospitals (AOR 1.67, 95% CI 1.32-2.11) and urban-teaching hospitals (AOR 1.62, 95% CI 1.33-1.97).   CONCLUSIONS Older children with asthma, younger children with LRI, children with chronic conditions, and those hospitalized in large urban-teaching hospitals are more vulnerable to prolonged LOS and complications. Future research and policy efforts should evaluate and support interventions to improve outcomes for these high-risk groups (eg, hospital-based care coordination for children with chronic conditions).
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE Providers from a variety of training backgrounds and specialties provide procedural sedation at institutions in the United States. We sought to better understand the privileging patterns and practices for sedation providers.   METHODS Surveys were sent to 56 program directors belonging to the Society for Pediatric Sedation using Research Electronic Data Capture to 56 pediatric sedation programs. The survey was designed to gather information regarding characteristics of their sedation service and the privileging of their sedation providers.   RESULTS The overall response rate was 41 (73%) of 56. Most programs surveyed (81%) said their physicians provided sedation as a part of their primary subspecialty job description, and 17% had physicians whose sole practice was pediatric sedation and no longer practiced in their primary subspecialty. Fifty-one percent of surveyed sedation programs were within freestanding children's hospitals and 61% receive oversight by the anesthesiology department at their institution. Eighty-one percent of the sedation programs require physicians to undergo special credentialing to provide sedation. Of these, 79% grant privileging through their primary specialty, whereas 39% require separate credentialing through sedation as a stand-alone section. For initial credentialing, requirements included completion of a pediatric sedation orientation and training packet (51% of programs), sedation training during fellowship (59%), and documentation of a specific number of pediatric procedural sedation cases (49%).   CONCLUSIONS In this survey of pediatric sedation programs belonging to the Society for Pediatric Sedation, the process for privileging providers in procedural sedation varies significantly from institution to institution. An opportunity exists to propose privileging standards for providers of pediatric procedural sedation.
OBJECTIVE To investigate the effect of pediatrician supply on under-5 mortality over the period 2000-2010.   DATA SOURCES Multiple publicly available data sources were used.   STUDY DESIGN Japan's 366 'Secondary Tier of Medical Care Units' (STMCU) were used as study units. To evaluate the association between under-5 mortality and pediatrician supply, we explored time and area fixed-effects Poisson regression model. The following factors were introduced into the models as time-varying controls: (1) number of physicians other than pediatricians per total population except for under-5-year-old population, and (2) income per total population by year and STMCU. Extensive sensitivity analyses were conducted to assess robustness of results.   PRINCIPAL FINDINGS Pediatrician density was inversely associated with under-5 mortality. We estimated that a unit increase in pediatrician density was associated with a 7 percent (95 percent CI: 2-12 percent) reduction in the child mortality rate after adjustment for all other variables. The results were consistent and robust across all specifications tested.   CONCLUSIONS The results suggest that increasing human health resources can have positive effects on child health, even in settings where child mortality of less than 5 per 1,000 has been achieved.
OBJECTIVE Seizures are common during and after treatment for a primary brain tumor. Our objective was to describe the incidence and risk factors for seizures in long-term survivors of pediatric brain tumors.   METHODS In a retrospective, longitudinal study, we reviewed all consecutive patients during a 12-month period who were at least 2혻years post initial diagnosis of a brain tumor. Data collection included age at diagnosis, length of follow-up, extent of initial resection, tumor histology, and treatment modalities. For patients who had experienced seizures at any time, the timing and frequency of seizures, seizure semiology, electroencephalography results, and anticonvulsant use were recorded. Univariate analyses and logistic regression were performed to assess risk factors.   RESULTS The cohort included 298 patients (140 female). Average duration of follow-up was 7.6혻years. Initial surgical resection was gross-total in 109 patients, and subtotal for 143. Twenty-nine patients underwent biopsy alone and 17 had no surgical intervention. Tumor location included posterior fossa (104; 36%), midline (98; 34%), cortical (85; 29%), and other (11; 3%). Most frequent diagnoses were low grade glioma, medulloblastoma, and ependymoma. Other treatments included cranial irradiation (N혻=혻163) and chemotherapy (n혻=혻127). Tumor recurrence occurred in 92 patients (30%). Seventy-one patients had seizures (24%). Ongoing seizures at the time of most recent follow-up were present in 42 patients. Risk factors for seizures included tumor location, tumor histology, tumor recurrence, and incomplete resection at time of initial presentation.   SIGNIFICANCE Seizures are a frequent comorbidity in pediatric brain tumor survivors, seen at presentation in 24% of patients and ongoing in 14%. Factors predisposing to seizures include tumor pathology (low/high grade glioma, glioneuronal tumor), cortical location, and subtotal resection. These data may assist in identification and management of patients at highest risk for seizures as well as identification of patients for potential treatment trials with antiepileptogenic agents.
OBJECTIVE This study assesses parents' literacy skills and evaluates how literacy levels influenced the effectiveness of a health communication intervention designed to improve safety knowledge in low-income, urban families.   METHODS A total of n = 450 parents of children aged 4 to 66 months completed the Rapid Estimate of Adult Literacy in Medicine (REALM) and participated in a randomized trial of an injury prevention intervention delivered via computer kiosk in a pediatric emergency department. A safety knowledge test was administered by telephone 2 to 4 weeks later.   RESULTS More than one-third of parents were assessed by the REALM to have marginal (30%) or inadequate (8%) reading levels; the remaining 62% of parents had adequate reading levels. REALM scores were independently associated with knowledge gains for poison storage and smoke alarms.   CONCLUSIONS Participants reading level had an independent and significant effect on safety knowledge outcomes. Literacy level should be considered in all patient education efforts.
The chronicity of illness that afflicts children in Pediatric Palliative Care and the medical technology that has improved their lifespan and quality of life make prognostication extremely difficult. The uncertainty of prognostication and the available medical technologies make both the neonatal intensive care unit and the pediatric intensive care unit locations where many children will receive Pediatric Palliative Care. Health care providers in the neonatal intensive care unit and pediatric intensive care unit should integrate fundamental Pediatric Palliative Care principles into their everyday practice.
OBJECTIVE To reveal the perceptions, expertise and practices of multi-professional teams providing palliative care to children in a paediatric oncology unit. The research questions were based on everyday care, facilitations and difficulties, essential aspects of professional approaches, and the inter-disciplinary focus of care for children in palliative care and their families.   METHOD Qualitative, exploratory and descriptive research. Data were collected from June to October 2013 from nine professional multidisciplinary team members by means of a semi-structured interview submitted to thematic analysis.   RESULTS The following four themes emerged from analysis: palliative care: conceptions of the multi-professional team; the construction of singular care; the facilitations and difficulties experienced by the team and significant lessons learned.   CONCLUSIONS The subjects revealed that the team also suffers with the death of a child and, like the family, moves toward the construction of coping mechanisms for the elaboration of mourning. Paradoxically, the team shares knowledge to determine the foundations of a singular therapeutic project and inserts the family in this process so that it can be the protagonist of the child's care.
BACKGROUND Epidemiologic studies worldwide have provided substantial evidence of the contributions of environmental exposures to the development of childhood cancer, yet this knowledge has not been integrated into the routine practice of clinicians who care for children with this disease. To identify the basis of this deficit, we sought to assess the environmental history-taking behavior and perceptions of environmental health among pediatric hematologists and oncologists.   PROCEDURE A web-based survey was sent from June to October 2012 to 427 pediatric oncologists, fellows, and nurse practitioners from 20 US institutions, with an overall response rate of 45%.   RESULTS Survey responses indicated that environmental exposures are of concern to clinicians. The vast majority of respondents (88%) reported receiving questions from families about the relationship between certain environmental exposures and the cancers they regularly treat. However, a lack of comfort with these topics seems to have limited their discussions with families about the role of environmental exposures in childhood cancer pathogenesis. Although 77% of respondents suspected that some of the cases they saw had an environmental origin, their methods of taking environmental histories varied widely. Over 90% of respondents believed that more knowledge of the associations between environmental exposures and childhood cancer would be helpful in addressing these issues with patients.   CONCLUSIONS Although limited in size and representativeness of participating institutions, the results of this survey indicate a need for increased training for hematology/oncology clinicians about environmental health exposures related to cancer and prompt translation of emerging research findings in biomedical journals that clinicians read.
Commercially available, interactive videogames that use body movements for interaction are used clinically in burn rehabilitation and have been shown to facilitate functional range of motion (ROM) but their efficacy with burn patients has not yet been proven. The purpose of this pilot randomized control study was to prospectively compare planar and functional ROM, compliance, pain, enjoyment, and exertion in pediatric burn patients receiving two types of rehabilitation therapy. Seventeen school-aged children with 31 affected limbs who demonstrated limited shoulder ROM from burn injury were randomized to receive exercises using either standard therapy ROM activities (ST) or interactive videogame therapy (VGT). Patients received 3 weeks of the designated therapy intervention twice daily. They were then given a corresponding home program of the same type of therapy to perform regularly for 6 months. Standard goniometry and three-dimensional motion analysis during functional tasks were used to assess ROM. Measures were taken at baseline, 3 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months. Pain was measured before and after each treatment session during the 3-week intervention. There was no difference in compliance, enjoyment, or exertion between the groups. Patients in both the ST and VGT groups showed significant improvement in shoulder flexion (P < .001), shoulder abduction (P <.001), shoulder external rotation (P = .01), and elbow flexion (P = .004) ROM from baseline to 6 months as measured with goniometry. Subjects also showed significant gains in elbow flexion (P = .04) during hand to head and shoulder flexion (P = .04) during high reach. There was no difference in ROM gains between the groups. Within group comparison showed that the VGT group had significantly more recovery of ROM during the first 3 weeks than any other timeframe in the study, whereas ST had most gains at 3 months. There was a significant difference between the groups in the subjects' pain response. ST subjects showed an increase in pain during the intervention, whereas VGT subjects did not (VGT: r = .047, ST: r = .18; P = .015). In this study, interactive videogames were equally effective as traditional therapy for overall ROM gains and resulted in quicker recovery of motion with less pain experienced. Such videogames are a useful adjunct to therapy and should be considered as part of a holistic approach to rehabilitation within the hospital and at home after discharge in pediatric patients recovering from burn injury.
BACKGROUND Potential neurotoxicity of anesthetic drugs is currently one of the most intensely discussed issues in pediatric anesthesia. Prospective human data are sorely lacking and there is an on-going debate among experts in the field whether one should (or can) extrapolate animal data to humans. Data regarding the thoughts of practicing anesthetists regarding this topic have not been published.   METHODS A web-based survey to assess the thoughts of practicing (European) anesthetists regarding neurotoxicity and how it may have influenced their daily practice of pediatric anesthesia.   RESULTS The majority (68.7%) of respondents regard neurotoxicity as an important topic, which they need to further explore. Two thirds have already changed their clinical practice and 44.3% were concerned about potential neurotoxicity. Anesthetists from children's hospitals were less likely to routinely inform parents about neurotoxicity (P=0.005) and more often applied an opioid-only anesthesia technique in selected premature neonates than general hospital based anesthetists (P<0.0001). Prospective human longitudinal studies focusing on neurodevelopment were given the highest priority for future research, whereas animal studies scored lowest.   CONCLUSIONS Practicing anesthetists care about potential neurotoxicity of anesthetic drugs in young children. Colleagues working in children's hospital have slightly different attitudes to deal with the topic, compared to those working in general hospitals. The vast majority of our colleagues are waiting for prospective human research data that may help to unravel the current controversy surrounding potential anesthetic drug neurotoxicity and help to improve the safety of pediatric anesthesia.
PURPOSE This study was conducted to design a rational approach to the MR diagnosis of hydrocephalus based on a pathophysiologic reevaluation of its possible mechanisms and to apply it to the different etiological contexts.   METHOD A review of the literature reports describing new physiologic models of production and absorption and of the hydrodynamics of the CSF was made.   RESULTS Besides the secretion of CSF by the choroid plexuses, and its passive, pressure-dependent transdural absorption (arachnoid villi, dural clefts, cranial, and spinal nerve sheaths), water transporters, aquaporins, allow water (if not ions and organic molecules) to exchange freely between the brain parenchyma and the CSF spaces across the ependymal and the pial interfaces (including the Virchow-Robin spaces). Consequently, the CSF bulk flow is not necessarily global, and situations of balanced absorption-secretion may occur separately in different CSF compartments such as the ventricular, intracranial, or intraspinal CSF spaces. This means that rather than from a hypothetical pressure gradient from the plexuses to the dural sinuses, the dynamics of the CSF depend on the force provided in those different compartments by the arterial systolic pulsation of the pericerebral (mostly), intracerebral, and intraventricular (choroid plexuses) vascular beds.   CONCLUSION Using MR imaging, diverse varieties of hydrocephalus may tentatively be explained by applying those concepts to the correspondingly diverse causal diseases. Hopefully, this may have an impact on the choice of the treatment strategies also.
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES Children with skin-related problems commonly present to general pediatricians, and dermatology is among the top specialty areas that pediatricians have identified as having inadequate training to support their practice. This study was designed to document current opportunities for dermatologic training during pediatric residency and provides suggestions for improvement.   METHODS Pediatric residency program directors were contacted to participate in an online survey focusing on dermatologic training during pediatric residency. The survey was sent to 199 programs, from which 78 responses were received (response rate 39.2%). Required or elective rotations, other educational opportunities, and adequacy of dermatology training during pediatric residency were assessed and compared between institutions with zero, one, or two or more affiliated pediatric dermatologists.   RESULTS Eighty-four percent of pediatric residency programs offer clinical training in dermatology. This training is required in only 19% of programs and is elective in 73%. Fewer than one-quarter of eligible residents participate in the elective option. Didactic dermatology lectures are available at all of the programs. Overall, only 6% of residency program directors felt that their graduating residents received very adequate training in dermatology and 26% felt their residents received inadequate training.   CONCLUSIONS Exposure to dermatology clinics was perceived to be the most desirable training modality for pediatric residents, but a minority of residents receive this exposure. Many pediatric residency program directors felt that residents receive inadequate dermatology training, which indicates a need to address educational deficiencies. Supporting a pediatric dermatologist on staff and requiring a rotation in pediatric dermatology could improve dermatologic curricula for pediatric residents.
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES Comorbidities and risk factors are associated with pediatric psoriasis. It is unknown whether pediatricians and dermatologists ask about, record, or counsel on pediatric psoriasis risk factors and comorbidities. The aim of our study was to assess the rate at which pediatricians and dermatologists inquire about, counsel on, and document pediatric psoriasis risk factors and comorbidities in a stable population.   METHODS This was a retrospective chart review from 2011 to 2013 in a large, rural multidisciplinary clinic, the Marshfield Epidemiologic Study Area. Participants were children ages 18 years and younger with plaque psoriasis. Rates of counseling and screening for pediatric psoriasis risk factors and comorbidities by pediatricians and dermatologists were determined.   RESULTS Thirty patients qualified for the study. Data were collected on body mass index (BMI) and tobacco exposure. Caregiver counseling rates on these factors were low; 66.7% and 60% did not receive counseling on BMI reduction or family member smoking cessation, respectively. Counseling on stress as a risk factor was performed at only one patient's dermatology visit (3.3%). Lipid panels were collected for 40% of patients and fasting glucose levels for 33.3% since the date of first psoriasis diagnosis. Blood pressure was collected for all patients. Only 13.3% of patients were counseled on the psoriasis comorbidity hyperlipidemia, 10% on hypertension, and 3.3% on diabetes mellitus.   CONCLUSIONS Dermatologists and pediatricians have a low rate of counseling, documenting, and screening for pediatric psoriasis risk factors and comorbidities, suggesting that psoriasis comorbidity education is an aspect of the patient visit that may need improvement. Pediatric psoriasis counseling and screening guidelines are needed.
BACKGROUND Recently published appropriate use criteria (AUC) for initial pediatric outpatient transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) have not yet been evaluated for clinical applicability.   OBJECTIVES This study sought to determine the appropriateness of TTE as currently performed in pediatric cardiology clinics, diagnostic yield of TTE for various AUC indications, and any gaps in the AUC document.   METHODS Data were prospectively collected from patients undergoing initial outpatient TTE in 6 centers. TTE indications (appropriate [A], may be appropriate [M], or rarely appropriate [R]) and findings (normal, incidental, or abnormal) were recorded.   RESULTS Of the 2,655 studies ordered by 102 physicians, indications rated A, M, and R were found in 1,876 (71%), 316 (12%), and 319 studies (12%), respectively, and 144 studies (5%) were unclassifiable. Twenty-four of 113 indications (21%) were not used. Innocent murmur and syncope or palpitations with no other indications of cardiovascular disease, a benign family history, and normal electrocardiogram accounted for 75% of indications rated R. Pathologic murmur had the highest yield of abnormal findings (40%). Odds of an abnormal finding in an A or M TTE were 6 times that of R (95% confidence interval [CI]: [2.8 to 12.8]). Abnormal findings were more common in patients <1 year of age than in those >10 years of age (odds ratio: 6.4; 95% CI: 4.7 to 8.7). Age was a significant predictor of an abnormal finding after adjusting for indication and site (p < 0.001).   CONCLUSIONS Most TTEs ordered in pediatric cardiology clinics were for indications rated A. AUC ratings successfully stratified indications based on the yield of abnormal findings. This study identified differences in the yield of TTE based on patient age and most common indications rated R. These findings should inform quality improvement efforts and future revisions of the AUC document.
Although care within a medical home increases parental satisfaction with health care services and improves health care utilization, significant racial/ethnic and language disparities persist in health care settings. Integrated, team-based approaches can decrease health disparities. The current study examines medical records of 2,353 youth who received a behavioral health consultation in an urban, residency training pediatric primary care clinic. A three-phase, mixed-method approach was used to examine whether differences in clinician-identified presenting concerns and recommendations were present across English-, Spanish-, and Other-language-speaking families. Findings reveal disparities among language groups in presenting concerns and referral to behavioral health services. Factors in medical record documentation also differed across language groups and by provider type. Recommendations for further research, identification, and assessment of psychosocial concerns for families with limited English proficiency (LEP) and development of evidence-based approaches for families with LEP in primary care are discussed.
For over 25 years, with medical advances increasing the lifespan of YYASHCN, we have been aware of the need to improve health care transition to adult-based care services. Barriers to health care transition have been identified and in a number of settings, recognition of the problem and preliminary success has been achieved for pilot programs. Evidence-based solutions to improve health care transition for YYASHCN are needed. There are barriers at the patient, family, pediatric, and adult provider, and insurance system levels that must be overcome.
BACKGROUND A current worldwide common goal is to optimize the health and well-being of children with cerebral palsy (CP). In order to reach that goal, for this heterogeneous group, a common language and classification systems are required to predict development and offer evidence based interventions. In most countries in Africa, South America, Asia and Eastern Europe the classification systems for CP are unfamiliar and rarely used. Education and implementation are required. The specific aims of this study were to examine a model in order to introduce the Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS-E&R) in Venezuela, and to examine the validity and the reliability.   METHODS Children with CP, registered at a National child rehabilitation centre in Venezuela, were invited to participate. The Spanish version of GMFCS-E&R was used. The Wilson mobility scale was translated and used to examine the concurrent validity. A structured questionnaire, comprising aspects of mobility and gross motor function, was constructed. In addition, each child was filmed. A paediatrician in Venezuela received supervised self-education in GMFCS-E&R and the Wilson mobility scale. A Swedish student was educated in GMFCS-E&R and the Wilson mobility scale prior to visiting Venezuela. In Venezuela, all children were classified and scored by the paediatrician and student independently. An experienced paediatric physiotherapist (PT) in Sweden made independent GMFCS-E&R classifications and Wilson mobility scale scorings, accomplished through merging data from the structured questionnaire with observations of the films. Descriptive statistics were used and reliability was presented with weighted Kappa (Kw). Spearman's correlation coefficient was calculated to explore the concurrent validity between GMFCS-E&R and Wilson mobility scale.   RESULTS Eighty-eight children (56 boys), mean age 10 years (3-18), with CP participated. The inter-rater reliability of GMFCS-E&R between; the paediatrician and the PT was Kw = 0.85 (95% CI: 0.75-0.88), the PT and student was Kw = 0.91 (95% CI: 0.86-0.95) and the paediatrician and student was Kw = 0.85 (95 % CI: 0.79-0.90). The correlations between GMFCS-E&R and Wilson mobility scale were high rs =0.94-0.95 (p < 0.001).   CONCLUSIONS In a setting with no previous knowledge of GMFCS-E&R, the model with education, supervised self-education and practice was efficient and resulted in very good reliability and validity.
Skeletal survey is frequently used to identify occult fractures in young children with concern for physical abuse. Because skeletal survey is relatively insensitive for some abusive fractures, a follow-up skeletal survey (FUSS) may be undertaken at least 10-14 days after the initial skeletal survey to improve sensitivity for healing fractures. This was a prospectively planned secondary analysis of a prospective, observational study of 2,890 children who underwent subspecialty evaluation for suspected child physical abuse at 1 of 19 centers. Our objective was to determine variability between sites in rates of FUSS recommendation, completion and fracture identification among the 2,049 participants who had an initial SS. Among children with an initial skeletal survey, the rate of FUSS recommendation for sites ranged from 20% to 97%; the rate of FUSS completion ranged from 10% to 100%. Among sites completing at least 10 FUSS, rates of new fracture identification ranged from 8% to 28%. Among completed FUSS, new fractures were more likely to be identified in younger children, children with higher initial level of concern for abuse, and those with a fracture or cutaneous injury identified in the initial evaluation. The current variability in FUSS utilization is not explained by variability in occult fracture prevalence. Specific guidelines for FUSS utilization are needed.
The objective of this study was to identify patterns of health care usage among children with congenital heart disease (CHD) and determine predictors for contacting cardiologists for routine care. Parents of children with CHD completed surveys, indicating which provider they would contact first for 12 concerns. Predictors for preference for cardiologist evaluation were identified by multivariable logistic regression. Surveys were completed by 307 of 925 (33.2%) parents. Median patient age was 9.4 years [interquartile range (IQR) 5.1-14.4 years] with a median of 1 cardiac surgery (IQR 1-3). Most parents agreed primary care physicians (PCPs) could identify problems related to CHD (70.0%) and when to refer to cardiologists (89.6%). More felt PCPs best understood their values (63.2 vs. 29.6%, P < 0.001) and were more accessible (63.5 vs. 33.6%, P < 0.001) than cardiologists. Parents preferred first evaluation by PCPs for 9 of 12 concerns. Preference for cardiology evaluation was independently associated with the number of cardiac catheterizations [adjusted odds ratio (AOR) for 2 catheterizations 2.4, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.1-4.9], belief the cardiologist better knew the child's medical history (AOR 2.4, 95% CI 1.3-4.6), and provider accessibility (AOR 3.6, 95% CI 1.8-7.4). Parents of CHD patients reported close alignment with PCPs and would contact PCPs first for most routine care. However, some populations continue to contact cardiologists for routine care. Further study is needed to clarify best practices for clinician and parent education.
Few pediatric guidelines have generated the amount or intensity of controversy that the pediatric lipid guidelines have. In the following article, I will synthesize the arguments against universal lipid screening and treatment in childhood. Direct evidence that relates the presence of cardiovascular risk factors in childhood to cardiovascular disease outcomes in adulthood is unavailable, and as a consequence, the guidelines were formulated based on a chain of indirect evidence. The debate centers on the strength of the indirect evidence that links risk factors present in childhood to adult disease outcomes. The arguments against universal lipid screening and treatment of children include (1) a history of unanticipated harms caused by screening tests or treatments that were enacted based on indirect evidence, (2) the poor test performance characteristics of lipid profiles in childhood when used as a screening test, (3) problems with the effectiveness of lipid testing done in the office setting, and (4) concerns regarding the safety of statins when used in children.
Clinical guidelines are developed to assist clinicians in complex clinical decision making. Modern guideline development includes a systematic review and grading of relevant literature and then using the evidence review to construct recommendations for clinical care which are also graded regarding the level of evidence supporting them. Pediatric guidelines for dyslipidemia were first published in 1992. There was then a gap during which no formal guidelines were developed. In 2011, the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Integrated Guidelines for Cardiovascular Disease Risk Reduction in Children were published. This included an evidence review and clinical recommendations regarding dyslipidemia. This review process began in 2006. The evidence review ended in 2008, and they were published in 2011 because of an extensive and prolonged review process. These guidelines recommend universal screening for dyslipidemia at age 9 to 11 y with a focus on identifying young individuals with genetic dyslipidemia such as familial hypercholesterolemia. The guidelines also include lifestyle recommendations and recommendations for pharmacologic treatment for children with markedly elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. The guideline process should include review of the implementation of guidelines in practice and should also include ongoing review of the guidelines with respect to a growing evidence base with new research findings.
BACKGROUND Early identification and treatment of individuals with elevated levels of atherogenic cholesterol have been shown to be effective and safe in reducing morbidity and mortality, especially in familial hypercholesterolemia. To better inform providers and identify children and adolescents at risk of premature cardiovascular disease, in November 2011, the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) published guidelines recommending cholesterol screening of all children aged between 9 to 11 and 17 to 21혻years regardless of the child's general health or the presence or the absence of cardiovascular disease risk factors.   OBJECTIVE To compare the number of 9- to 11-year-old children screened for hypercholesterolemia in 5 community-based ambulatory pediatric clinics before and after publication of the NHLBI's guidelines.   METHODS Practice demographics, screening frequency, and test results for each clinic were collected before and after publication of the NHLBI's recommendation. Provider education was provided between measures.   RESULTS Of all eligible 9- to 11-year-old children, 489 (17.1%) were screened before and 686 (20.1%) after the NHLBI's guidelines and provider education.   CONCLUSIONS Baseline rates of lipid screening for the 5 community-based ambulatory pediatric clinics were higher than those previously reported and increased significantly after publication of the NHLBI's recommendations and provider education. However, overall screening rates remained low. Given the high prevalence of premature cardiovascular disease associated with atherogenic cholesterol, especially familial hypercholesterolemia, additional strategies are needed to improve screening rates.
The treatment of gastro-esophageal reflux disease (GERD) shows several issues among paediatric patients. This work aims to the formulation of enteric alginate beads loaded with omeprazole (OME) allowing age- and weight-related personalized dosages in children. OME was entrapped in SBA-15 mesoporous compound, characterized and loaded into alginate beads by prilling at different OME and alginate concentrations. The beads resulted of homogeneous size, spherical morphology and very consistent in drug loading and distribution. Formulations demonstrated limited swelling and release (about 10%) in simulated gastric fluid (SGF) after 2h and a prolonged release in simulated intestinal fluid (SIF), till 6h, due to a mixed diffusion-case II transport mechanism. The beads were superior to the market product, which showed lower release in SGF but immediate dissolution in SIF. The high alginate beads uniformity and release properties make them a potential novel tool for a personalized treatment of GERD in children.
OBJECTIVE To compare job search experience and postresidency position of pediatric residents on the basis of childhood location (United States or international) and medical school location (American medical graduates [AMG] or international medical graduate [IMG]).   METHODS Annual national random samples of 1000 graduating pediatric residents from 2009 to 2013 were surveyed. Multivariable analyses, controlling for resident and program characteristics, compared job search experiences and postresidency positions among 4 groups categorized by childhood and medical school location: US-AMG, US-IMG, international-AMG, and international-IMG.   RESULTS A total of 3027 graduating residents (61.1%) responded: 75.2% US-AMG, 15.8% international-IMG, 6.3% US-IMG, and 2.7% international-AMG. The 4 groups varied by demographics (age, race, gender, marital status, children, bi- or multilingual family), educational debt, residency program region and size, and Spanish proficiency (P혻<혻.01). The US-AMG were least likely to have a bi- or multilingual family (25.7%) or be proficient in Spanish (15.0%). One-third (34.5%) accepted fellowship positions. International-IMG and US-IMG were more likely than US-AMG to choose fellowship positions (adjusted odds ratio [aOR], 2.04; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.52-2.74; aOR, 1.77; 95% CI, 1.25-2.52, respectively). Among residents who applied for general pediatric or hospitalist positions, 23.1% reported moderate to considerable difficulty in their job search, and 44.1% accepted positions in underserved areas. International-IMG and US-IMG were more likely than US-AMG to report job search difficulty (aOR, 2.49; 95% CI, 1.55-3.98; aOR, 1.78; 95% CI, 1.04-3.06, respectively), and international-IMG were more likely to accept positions in underserved areas (aOR, 1.68; 95% CI, 1.07-2.63).   CONCLUSIONS Multiple factors are involved in pediatrician's career choices. When childhood location is considered with medical school location, there were differences between groups in demographics, job search difficulty, and career intentions.
The steps from patient evaluation to genetic diagnosis remain complicated. We discuss some of the genetic testing methods available along with their general advantages and disadvantages. We briefly review common pediatric epilepsy syndromes with strong genetic association and provide a potentially useful algorithm for genetic testing in drug-resistant epilepsy. We performed an extensive literature review of available information as it pertains to genetic testing and genetics in pediatric epilepsy. If a genetic disorder is suspected as the cause of epilepsy, based on drug resistance, family history, or clinical phenotype, timely diagnosis may reduce overall cost, limit the diagnostic odyssey that can bring much anxiety to families, improve prognostic accuracy, and lead to targeted therapy. Interpretation of complicated results should be performed only in collaboration with geneticists and genetic counselors, unless the ordering neurologist has a strong background in and understanding of genetics. Genetic testing can play an important role in the care provided to patients with epilepsy.
OBJECTIVE To implement a curriculum using simulation and skills training to augment a Pediatric Emergency Medicine (PEM) rotation within a pediatric clerkship.   BACKGROUND PEM faculty are often challenged with a high learner to teacher ratio in a chaotic clinical setting. This challenge was heightened when our pediatric clerkship's traditional 1-week PEM rotation (consisting of 4 students completing four 8-hour ED shifts/week) expanded to 8 students every 2 weeks. We sought to meet this challenge by integrating simulation-based education into the rotation.   METHODS Clerkship students from March to June 2012 completed our traditional rotation. Students between July and October 2012 completed the new PEM-SIM curriculum with 19 hours ED shifts/week and 16 hours/week of simulation/skills training. Pre/post-tests evaluated 1) medical management/procedural comfort (five-point Likert scale); and 2) PEM knowledge (15 multiple-choice questions).   RESULTS One hundred and nine students completed the study (48 traditional, 61 PEM-SIM). Improvement in comfort was significantly higher for the PEM-SIM group than the traditional group for 6 of 8 (75%) medical management items (p<0.05) and 3 of 7 (43%) procedures, including fracture splinting, lumbar puncture, and abscess incision/drainage (p<0.05). PEM-SIM students had significantly more improvement in mean knowledge compared to the traditional group (p<0.001).   CONCLUSIONS We have successfully integrated 16 hours/week of faculty-facilitated simulation-based education into a PEM rotation within our clerkship. This curriculum is beneficial in clinical settings with high learner to teacher ratios and when patient care experiences alone are insufficient for all students to meet rotation objectives.
Despite improvements in survival rates for children with cancer since the 1960s, progress for many pediatric malignancies has slowed over the past two decades. With the recent advances in our understanding of the genomic landscape of pediatric cancer, there is now enthusiasm for individualized cancer therapy based on genomic profiling of patients' tumors. However, several obstacles to effective personalized cancer therapy remain. For example, relatively little data from prospective clinical trials demonstrate the selective efficacy of molecular-targeted therapeutics based on somatic mutations in the patient's tumor. In this commentary, we discuss recent advances in preclinical testing for pediatric cancer and provide recommendations for providing scientific justification and translational relevance for novel therapeutic combinations for childhood cancer. Establishing rigorous criteria for defining and validating druggable mutations will be essential for the success of ongoing and future clinical genomic trials for pediatric malignancies.
Epigenetics can be defined as stable, potentially heritable changes in the cellular phenotype caused by mechanisms other than alterations to the underlying DNA sequence. As such, any observed phenotypic changes including organ development, aging, and the occurrence of disease could be driven by epigenetic mechanisms in the presence of stable cellular DNA sequences. Indeed, with the exception of rare mutations, the human genome-sequence has remained remarkably stable over the past centuries. In contrast, substantial changes to our environment as part of our modern life style have not only led to a significant reduction of certain infectious diseases but also seen the exponential increase in complex traits including obesity and multifactorial diseases such as autoimmune disorders. It is becoming increasingly clear that epigenetic mechanisms operate at the interface between the genetic code and our environment, and a large body of existing evidence supports the importance of environmental factors such as diet and nutrition, infections, and exposure to toxins on human health. This seems to be particularly the case during vulnerable periods of human development such as pregnancy and early life. Importantly, as the first point of contact for many of such environmental factors including nutrition, the digestive system is being increasingly linked to a number of 'modern' pathologies. In this review article, we aim to give a brief introduction to the basic molecular principals of epigenetics and provide a concise summary of the existing evidence for the role of epigenetic mechanisms in gastrointestinal health and disease, hepatology, and nutrition.
PURPOSE Medical education aims to equip physicians for lifelong learning, an objective supported by the conceptual framework of self-regulated learning (SRL). Learning goals have been used to develop SRL skills in learners across the medical education continuum. This study's purpose was to elicit residents' perspectives on learning goal use and to develop explanations suggesting how aspects of the learning environment may facilitate or hinder the meaningful use of learning goals in residency.   METHOD Resident focus groups and program director interviews were conducted in 2012-2013, audio-recorded, and transcribed. Programs were selected to maximize diversity of size, geographic location, type of program, and current use of learning goals. Data were analyzed using the constant comparative method associated with grounded theory. Further analysis compared themes frequently occurring together to strengthen the understanding of relationships between the themes. Through iterative discussions, investigators built a grounded theory.   RESULTS Ninety-five third-year residents and 12 program directors at 12 pediatric residency programs participated. The analysis identified 21 subthemes grouped into 5 themes: program support, faculty roles, goal characteristics and purposes, resident attributes, and accountability and goal follow-through. Review of relationships between the themes revealed a pyramid of support with program support as the foundation that facilitates the layers above it, leading to goal follow-through.   CONCLUSIONS Program support facilitates each step of the SRL process that leads to meaningful use of learning goals in residency. A strong foundation of program support should include attention to aspects of the implicit curriculum as well as the explicit curriculum.
To evaluate whether screening for hypertension should start early in life, information on the risk of diseases associated with the level of blood pressure in childhood or adolescence is needed. The study by Leiba et al. that is reported in the current issue of Pediatric Nephrology demonstrates convincingly that hypertensive adolescents are at higher risk of cardiovascular death than normotensive adolescents. Nevertheless, it can be shown that this excess risk is not sufficient to justify a screen-and-treat strategy. Since the large majority of cardiovascular deaths occur among normotensive adolescents, measures for primordial prevention of cardiovascular diseases could have a much larger impact at the population level.
BACKGROUND Best practice guidelines for the treatment of cancer now advocate for a child- and family-centered model of care and a psychosocial model of risk prevention. However, healthcare professionals (HCPs) report a number of barriers preventing the implementation of psychosocial care, including an absence of tools to help identify psychosocial problems within the family.   OBJECTIVES The aims of this study are to (1) explore the psychometric properties of the Psychosocial Care Checklist (PCCL) and (2) test if the PCCL can differentiate the degree to which HCPs are aware of psychosocial problems within the family (patient, siblings, parents) of a child with cancer.   METHODS Thirty-seven HCPs caring for a child with cancer completed the PCCL at time 1 (2-4 weeks after diagnosis) and 29 HCPs completed the PCCL at time 2 (2-3 weeks after).   RESULTS The PCCL had strong test-retest reliability for all domains (慣 > .60) and strong internal consistency for the total PCCL (慣 = .91). Interrater reliability was moderate for the oncologist-nurse dyad with regard to sibling knowledge (r = 0.56) and total psychosocial knowledge (r = 0.65). Social workers were significantly more knowledgeable than both nurses and oncologists about total family problems (P = .01) and sibling problems (P = .03).   CONCLUSIONS Preliminary findings suggest that the PCCL has adequate test-retest reliability and validity and is useful in differentiating the degree to which HCPs are aware of psychosocial problems within the family, with social workers being the most knowledgeable.   IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE Using the PCCL may help HCPs to identify psychosocial problems within the family and appropriately allocate psychosocial resources.
OBJECTIVES Evaluating unnecessary US medical practices, and the strategies that reduce them, are increasingly recognized as crucial to healthcare financing sustainability. Provider factors are known to affect unnecessary medical practices, yet little is known about how physician responses to patient requests for unnecessary care affect these practices. Among primary care physicians (PCPs), we investigated 2 types of unnecessary medical practices triggered by patient requests: a) unnecessary specialty referrals and b) prescriptions for brand-name drugs when generic alternatives are available.   STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS We used data from a survey of a nationally representative sample of 840 US PCPs in 2009. Response rates for family practice (n = 274), internal medicine (n = 257), and pediatrics (n = 309) were 67.5%, 60.8%, and 72.7%, respectively.   RESULTS In response to patient requests, 51.9% of PCPs reported making unnecessary specialty referrals and 38.7% prescribed brand-name drugs. Family physicians (odds ratio [OR], 2.77; 95% CI, 1.77-4.34) and internal medicine physicians (OR, 4.51; 95% CI, 2.87-7.06) were more likely than pediatricians to prescribe brand-name drugs. PCP specialty was similarly associated with unnecessary referrals. Other predictors of acquiescence to patient requests included interactions with drug/device representatives, more years of clinical experience, seeing fewer safety net patients, and solo/2-person practice organizations. Area-level Medicare spending was not associated with the 2 unnecessary practices.   CONCLUSIONS Many PCPs reported acquiescing to patient requests for unnecessary care. Provider and organizational factors predicted this behavior. Policies aimed at reducing such practice could improve care quality and lower cost. Patient and physician incentives that can potentially reduce unnecessary medical practices warrant exploration.
The European Academy of Paediatrics (EAP) is gravely concerned about the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination crisis in Japan and particularly about the negative position taken by governmental authorities. Given that the HPV vaccine is both safe and effective, there is no recognizable reason to date to withhold this lifesaving and cost effective public health measure from a population. Therefore, the EAP strongly encourages the Japanese health authorities to actively support HPV vaccination for the future health of their children and adolescents.
Although computed tomography is often the first line of imaging in the emergency setting, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is of increasing importance in the evaluation of central nervous system emergencies in the pediatric population. As such, it is necessary to understand the indications for which MRI may be necessary. This article reviews the unique pathophysiologic entities affecting the pediatric population and the associated MRI findings. Specifically, utility of emergent MRI and characteristic appearances of traumatic brain injury, traumatic spinal injury, nonaccidental trauma, arterial ischemic stroke, cerebral sinovenous thrombosis, stroke mimics, and central nervous system infections are described.
This study aimed to describe the pattern and immediate outcome of severe childhood anaemia requiring blood transfusion at a secondary level of care in Nigeria. A cross-sectional survey of children hospitalized in a secondary health facility in Ogun State, Nigeria, with packed cell volume <20% and who received blood transfusion was done. Of the 253 children admitted between March 2013 and June 2014, 79 (31.2%) had severe anaemia and were transfused with blood. Two-thirds had multiple transfusions. Higher rates of blood transfusion were obtained among underweight children. Fever (98.7%), hypoglycaemia (65.8%) and tender liver (54.4%) were the leading co-morbidities. The case fatality rate was 21.5%. Respiratory distress, convulsions and altered sensorium were significantly associated with mortality. In conclusion, severe anaemia was associated with major morbidities and mortality at the secondary level of paediatric care in Nigeria.
OBJECTIVE The objective of this study was to examine sedation practices for paediatric nuclear medicine examinations.   METHODS A questionnaire was sent to all nuclear medicine departments in Denmark about sedation practices during 2012.   RESULTS The response rate was 100% (18 departments). Three departments did not examine children at all. The total number of paediatric examinations among the remaining 15 sites varied from 20 to 1,583 (median 191). Sedation practice showed that approximately 50% of the sites regularly (>50% of the patients) used pharmacological sedation for renography in children aged 6-12 months and 1-3 years. A minority of centres (15%) regularly used sedation in children aged 0-6 months, and no sites regularly used sedation in children aged and 4-6 years. Similar findings were found for renal scintigraphy. However, one large site used no sedation in children aged 1-3 years for renography but approximately 50% of patients used it in the same age group receiving renal scintigraphy with SPET. There was a trend for reduced use of sedation with increasing total number of paediatric medicine procedures. The most frequently used agents were benzodiazepines and barbiturates. The most common route of administration was rectal, oral, and intravenous.   CONCLUSION The sedation practices varied considerably among Danish nuclear medicine departments. The sedation of children in clinical practice seemed to be more prevalent than is recommended by guidelines.
Children with advanced cancer, including those with hematologic malignancies, can benefit from interdisciplinary palliative care services. Palliative care includes management of distressing symptoms, attention to psychosocial and spiritual needs, and assistance with navigating complex medical decisions with the ultimate goal of maximizing the quality-of-life of the child and family. Palliative care is distinct from hospice care and can assist with the care of patients throughout the cancer continuum, irrespective of prognosis. While key healthcare organizations, including the Institute of Medicine, the American Academy of Pediatrics and the American Society of Clinical Oncology among many others endorse palliative care for children with advanced illness, barriers to integration of palliative care into cancer care still exist. Providing assistance with advance care planning, guiding patients and families through prognostic uncertainty, and managing transitions of care are also included in goals of palliative care involvement. For patients with advanced malignancy, legislation, included in the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act allows patients and families more options as they make the difficult transition from disease directed therapy to care focused on comfort and quality-of-life.
We undertook a cross-sectional survey of antimicrobial stewardship clinicians in North America and Australasia regarding practices, goals, and barriers to implementation of stewardship for pediatric oncology patients. Goals and barriers were similar regardless of clinician or institutional characteristics and geographic location. Strategies addressing these factors could help optimize antimicrobial use.
Polycystic ovary syndrome is the most common hormonal and metabolic disorder likely to affect women. The syndrome is often associated with obesity, hyperinsulinemia and adversely affects endocrine, metabolic, and cardiovascular health. The complex feature of the syndrome requires an interdisciplinary approach to treatment, where cooperation of paediatrician, internist, gynaecologist, endocrinologist, dermatologist, psychologist and oncologist is essential. The prevention and the treatment should be based on the best available evidence. This should include physical examination, laboratory tests for hormones, serum insulin, glucose, lipids, in addition patient's preferences should be considered, too. To maximise health gain of polycystic ovarian syndrome, adequate, effective, efficient and safe treatment is necessary. This article summarises the highest available evidence provided by meta-analyses and systematic reviews of the prevention of metabolic and cardiovascular complications of the syndrome, and discusses the relevant evidence published in the literature.
Chronic liver diseases in children represent a rising problem with significant effects on public health. In fact, several pediatric liver diseases are precursors of adult chronic hepatopathies, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The prevalence of liver diseases in children is unknown. In the USA, every year, 15,000 children are hospitalized for liver diseases, but these disorders continue to be under-recognized or diagnosed late. The main reason is due to the frequent absence of symptoms in the vast majority of liver diseases, especially in the early stages. In the last few decades several advances have been made in understanding the pathogenesis of liver diseases, permitting the discovery of new therapeutic targets to treat liver diseases, thus improving the natural history of these disorders. In this article we discuss the most recent advances in the understanding of the pathogenesis, diagnosis and treatment of the most frequent pediatric liver diseases.
In 2007, the first trainee-led surgical research network was founded in the United Kingdom (UK). The West Midlands Research Collaborative was started by a group of enthusiastic adult surgical trainees who saw the benefits of altruistic collaboration to generate high quality, multicenter research. Seeing the success of their research projects, including randomized controlled trials, trainees in other regions and specialties were spurred on to founding their own research collaboratives. The Pediatric Surgical Trainee Research Network was started in 2011 by a group of UK trainees with the aim to promote, facilitate, and encourage trainee-led research in pediatric surgery. This article summarizes the history and evolution of the trainee collaborative surgical research. It examines the challenges which multicenter research entails and the steps the collaboratives have taken to overcome them. We describe some of the projects which have been successfully completed and the benefits that the trainee networks have for patients and surgeons alike.
Surveys are an important research tool to evaluate the practice patterns of physicians. In the medical literature, practice surveys are increasingly used in specialties, such as pediatric surgery, characterized by the lack of sufficient evidence-based literature due to the rarity of the conditions treated. To maintain a level that yields to a meaningful scientific contribution the design, data collection and analysis of the survey have to be rigorous. Herein, we describe the general principles of survey methodology, we report the benefits and limitations of this statistical method, and we discuss the value of surveys in pediatric surgery.
Lack of availability, of either the medicinal product intended to be used for children, or such in a dose which is fitting for the individual child's needs, results in physicians administering medicines meant for the adult. The target of the thesis was to evaluate the cases with the usage of commercially avaible conventional tablet-formulated medicinal products intended for the adult in the pediatric formula. The subjects of the evaluation were the form of the pediatric drug, prepared from commercially available tablets and capsules, as well as the legitimacy of their usage in the treatment of the pediatric population. One hundred and fifty-four prescriptions filled in community pharmacies of Warminsko-Mazurskie Voivodeship in 2011 were chosen. A total of 5805 divided powders in starch capsules were prepared. The prescribing practice included 6 groups of manufactured medicinal products in the form of conventional tablets, containing as follows: anti-hypertensive medicines (ACE inhibitors--enalapril, captopril, ramipril, loop diuretics--furosemide, potassium sparing diuretics--spironolactone, 棺-adrenolytics--propranolol, 慣- and 棺-adrenolytics--carvedilol), medicines for heart failure (foxglove glycosides--digoxin, methyldigoxin), anti-clotting medicines (acetylsalicylic acid), peristalsis stimulating agents (metoclopramide), antibacterial medicines (furagin), and dopaminergic (carbidopa-levodopa). The only compounded forms ordered by the physicians were divided powders for an internal use. Starch capsules for powder preparation provided the only 'package' for the dose of the compounded powder, which after pouring, solving or suspending in water was administered to children. Such a shift of the form, between an oral tablet and divided powder for an internal use, did not cause a change in the method of administration. The information on indications and the way of dosage for children, inserted in the Summary of Product Characteristics, enables the administration which follows the registered indications, despite the shortage of an appropriate dose in the pharmaceutical market. In contrast, an absence of the information regarding the indications and a dosage for children in the Summary of Product Characteristic, results in an off-label administration, in case of a child.
Under-recruitment into clinical trials is a common and costly problem that undermines medical research. To better understand barriers to recruitment into clinical trials in our region, we conducted a multimethod descriptive study. We initially surveyed investigators who had conducted or were currently conducting studies that utilized an adult or pediatric clinical research center (n = 92). We then conducted focus groups and key informant interviews with investigators, coordinators, and other stakeholders in clinical and translational research (n = 32 individuals). Only 41% of respondents reported that they had or were successfully meeting recruitment goals and 24% of the closed studies actually met their targeted recruitment goals. Varied reasons were identified for poor recruitment but there was not a single investigator or study 'phenotype' that predicted enrollment outcome. Investigators commonly recruited from their own practice or clinic, and 29% used a manual electronic medical record search. The majority of investigators would utilize a service that provides recruitment advice, including feasibility assessment and consultation, easier access to the electronic health record and assistance with institutional review board and other regulatory requirements. Our findings suggest potential benefits providing assistance across a range of services that can be individualized to the varied needs of clinical and translational investigators.
Technical competence is an essential aspect of intraoperative performance but is in itself insufficient to ensure an optimal surgical outcome. A list of other skills complement technical ability and these relate, among others, to surgical judgment and intraoperative decision-making processes as well as the role of the operating surgeon as leader of the surgical team. This article outlines the composite set of nontechnical skills (NTS) and the factors which influence surgical performance by virtue of this skill set. A framework has been developed to allow identification, teaching, and assessment of NTS known as Nontechnical Skills for Surgeons (NOTSS), and the relevance and influence of NOTSS during the intraoperative performance of pediatric surgery is presented.
Vision screening is crucial for the detection of visual and systemic disorders. It should begin in the newborn nursery and continue throughout childhood. This clinical report provides details regarding methods for pediatricians to use for screening.
Cardiomyopathies in children encompass a broad range of diseases, both genetic and acquired, which manifest as a primary cardiac disorder or as a cardiomyopathy secondary to systemic disease. The burden of this group of disorders is substantial, and growing on a global scale. The availability of disease altering treatments is limited, and therefore a focused review on the prevention of cardiomyopathies is justified. In this review, we address the prevention of cardiomyopathy in children by dealing with the root causes of disease at a molecular, clinical and population level. Recent years have yielded promising returns in basic research related to gene-targeted therapy, specific anti-viral therapies and modification of the effects of cardiotoxic drugs. Much work remains to be done in the fields of vaccine development, public health and adoption of available treatments. Effective research in this field will require that diagnostic methods are both refined, and made available more broadly, from imaging to gene testing. Much of our knowledge today is derived from the use of registries, which have successfully catalogued the detailed phenotype of affected patients, and provided long-term longitudinal follow up of affected individuals.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW The aim of this review is to analyze innovative data pertaining to the clinical use of mechanical ventilation for children.   RECENT FINDINGS The optimal definition and treatment of pediatric acute respiratory distress syndrome, the application of innovative ventilation modes in children to optimize child/ventilator interaction, and pediatric noninvasive ventilation, including specific interfaces, have been recently evaluated in the literature.   SUMMARY Despite the improvement observed in the last decades in the treatment of pediatric acute respiratory failure and the diffusion of innovative modes of mechanical ventilation, there are no clear and consistent guidelines for the use of mechanical ventilation for children. In several areas data are still lacking, and in many others they are extrapolated from studies performed in adults; the direct evaluation of results obtained from studies specific to the pediatric population is therefore crucial.
OBJECTIVES To estimate the prevalence and losses in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) associated with 20 child health conditions.   METHODS Using data from the 2009-2010 National Survey of Children with Special Health Care Needs, preference weights were applied to 14 functional difficulties to summarize the quality of life burden of 20 health conditions.   RESULTS Among the 14 functional difficulties, 'a little trouble with breathing' had the highest prevalence (37.1 %), but amounted to a loss of just 0.16 QALYs from the perspective of US adults. Though less prevalent, 'a lot of behavioral problems' and 'chronic pain' were associated with the greatest losses (1.86 and 3.43 QALYs). Among the 20 conditions, allergies and asthma were the most prevalent but were associated with the least burden. Muscular dystrophy and cerebral palsy were among the least prevalent and most burdensome. Furthermore, a scatterplot shows the association between condition prevalence and burden.   CONCLUSIONS In child health, condition prevalence is negatively associated with quality of life burden from the perspective of US adults. Both should be considered carefully when evaluating the appropriate role for public health prevention and interventions.
The management of patients with ulcerative colitis who are dependent on corticosteroid for control of symptoms, or refractory to corticosteroids or standard immunosuppressive therapy, is challenging. The development of newer medical therapies has increased the options for managing patients in this situation, but access and funding remain limited. This guideline summarises the literature regarding this situation and provides guidance as to the management of refractory colitis in the New Zealand setting.
This article reviews the current status of treatment for children with rhabdomyosarcoma, according to the four risk groups. Low-risk subgroup A: the Children's Oncology Group in the USA recently performed a clinical trial consisting of a chemotherapy regimen with a shortened treatment period and a reduced drug dosage. Patients in this group received only four cycles of vincristine and actinomycin D (VA) after four cycles of vincristine, actinomycin D, and cyclophosphamide (VAC) with cyclophosphamide (CPM) 1.2뎖/m(2) and their outcome was no worse than that obtained with previous regimens. Low-risk subgroup B: although marked improvement in survival was seen with an intensive VAC regimen with CPM 2.2뎖/m(2) /cycle (Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Study [IRS]-V, 1997-2004), the total dose of CPM in this regimen caused serious and fatal hepatic veno-occlusive disease during treatment and probably cannot avoid infertility or possible secondary cancer as a late effect. Thereafter, a reduced-dose regimen consisting of four cycles of VAC with CPM 1.2뎖/m(2) followed by 12뎑ycles of VA was investigated in the next study, but the outcome appeared to be worse than in IRS-V. Intermediate-risk group: no significant difference was found between VAC/vincristine, topotecan and cyclophispahamide (VTC) and intensive VAC in IRS-V. The results of a subsequent regimen of VAC with CPM 1.2뎖/m(2) alternating with vincristine and irinotecan are awaited. High-risk group: overall survival is approximately 30% and has not improved over the last 25뎫ears. Although 18뎜onth failure-free survival (FFS) was improved with an intensive combination therapy regimen, 36뎜onth FFS dropped to 32% and thus better novel approaches or additive treatments are needed.
In November 2014, the American Academy of Pediatrics convened key stakeholders to discuss the feasibility of accelerating children's medical advances by creating an independent global Pediatric Clinical Trials Network. The Forum identified challenges posed by the U.S. and global clinical trial systems regarding testing and disseminating drugs and devices for pediatric patients. Stakeholders mapped a vision to improve the safety and efficacy of pediatric drugs, biological products, and medical devices by creating a global Pediatric Clinical Trials Network. Such a Network would act as a central infrastructure for pediatric subspecialties and enable dedicated staff to provide clinical research sites with scientific, medical, and operational support. A Network would facilitate development and availability of innovative, high-quality therapies to extend and enhance the lives of neonates, infants, children, adolescents, and young adults. Participants expressed strong interest in forming such a Network, since drugs and devices still come to market without adequate pediatric indications-particularly in neonatology and rare diseases. Participants developed a Consensus Statement expressing their shared vision for a Network: Attendees of the Pediatric Clinical Trials Stakeholder Forum resolved to establish a Global Pediatric Clinical Trials Network and are committed to engage in the work to create and sustain it.
UNLABELLED Congenital heart defects (CHD) continue to be the most prevalent birth defect that occurs worldwide in approximately 6-8 of every 1,000 live births. High rates of morbidity and mortality in infants, children, and adults living with CHD place a growing need for health care professionals (HCPs) to better understand potentially modifiable genetic and environmental influences. This paper will present examples of research and governmental initiatives that support genetics education and research and a review of known genetic factors associated with CHD development.   ORGANIZING CONSTRUCT A review of the known genetic factors on risk for CHD formation in infants will be provided to help health care professionals gain a greater understanding of the genetic influences on pediatric cardiac health.   CONCLUSIONS There are known genetic pathways and risk factors that contribute to development of CHD. This paper is a primer for nurses and HCPs providing information of the genetics and inheritance patterns of CHD to be useful in daily clinical practice.   CLINICAL RELEVANCE Nurses work in multiple communities where they are uniquely positioned to educate and provide information about research and current models of care with families affected by CHD. Nurses and HCPs who better understand genetic risk factors associated with CHD development can more promptly refer and offer treatment for these children and families thus providing individuals of childbearing age with the necessary resources and information about risk factors.
All orthopedic surgeons face moral dilemmas on a regular basis; however, little has been written about the moral dilemmas that are encountered when providing orthopedic care to pediatric patients and their families. This article aims to provide surgeons with a better understanding of how bioethics and professionalism apply to the care of their pediatric patients. First, several foundational concepts of both bioethics and professionalism are summarized, and definitions are offered for 16 important terms within the disciplines. Next, some of the unique aspects of pediatric orthopedics as a subspecialty are reviewed before engaging in a discussion of 5 common moral dilemmas within the field. Those dilemmas include the following: (1) obtaining informed consent and assent for either surgery or research from pediatric patients and their families; (2) performing cosmetic surgery on pediatric patients; (3) caring for pediatric patients with cognitive or physical impairments; (4) caring for injured pediatric athletes; and (5) meeting the demand for pediatric orthopedic care in the United States. Pertinent considerations are reviewed for each of these 5 moral dilemmas, thereby better preparing surgeons for principled moral decision making in their own practices. Each of these dilemmas is inherently complex with few straightforward answers; however, orthopedic surgeons have an obligation to take the lead and better define these kinds of difficult issues within their field. The lives of pediatric patients and their families will be immeasurably improved as a result.
BACKGROUND The objective of this study was to evaluate the appropriateness of antibiotic suspensions use for pediatrics among Palestinian mothers' including their reconstitution, dose administration, duration, and storage conditions.   METHODS This study was a questionnaire based cross sectional descriptive study. It was conducted at a governmental primary healthcare center and a pediatric private clinic in Nablus city between January and March 2013. A sample of 400 mothers were met and asked to answer a face to face questionnaire.   RESULTS The results showed that 347 (86.8 %) of mothers told that they read instructions, 311 (77.8 %) could understand manufacturers' instructions, and 176 (44.0 %) of mothers asked pharmacists for advice when instructions were not well understood. In order to prepare antibiotic suspension, 302 (75.5 %) used boiled then cooled water, 192 (48.4 %) of mothers used a syringe to measure the needed amount of water, and 304 (76.6 %) added water in two steps, 392 (98.0 %) of mothers claimed that they shook the suspension bottle before use. Regarding dose administration, 313 (78.2 %) considered syringe as the most accurate tool for dose administration, most of mothers told that they gave drug dose with major meals when direction were to give three times daily, about use duration only 6 (1.5 %) mothers said that they used antibiotic suspension after 2 weeks, and 53 (6.5 %) gave left over antibiotic suspension to another child. One hundred seventy seven (44.2 %) mothers told they stored dry powder antibiotic in medicinal cabinet, while 226 (56.5 %) of them stored suspension in refrigerator.   CONCLUSION The results reflect a good level of correct practice. However, there is a room for improvement. The pharmacists are recommended to explain the correct directions, to supply a syringe with suitable calibration for dose administration, and to counsel parents about suitable storage condition, frequency of dosing and duration of use.
It is a fundamental value of the surgical profession to improve care for its patients. In the last 100 years, the principles of prospective quality improvement have started to work their way into the traditional method of retrospective case review in morbidity and mortality conference. This article summarizes the history of 'improvement science' and its intersection with the field of surgery. It attempts to clarify the principles and jargon that may be new or confusing to surgeons with a different vocabulary and experience. This is done to bring the significant power and resources of improvement science to the traditional efforts to improve surgical care.
Quality improvement (QI) has become a focus of contemporary surgical practice. The purpose of this review is to provide a framework of working knowledge regarding QI for the practicing surgeon. QI design, implementation methods, measurement tactics, statistical analysis, and presentation tools based on the Institute of Healthcare Improvement model are reviewed. Additional principles to optimize QI success such as fostering communication, building a culture of QI, leadership involvement, and financial planning are also explored. Lastly, resources for QI education and teaching are provided for those interested in learning more about this expanding field.
Traditional surgical attitude regarding error and complications has focused on individual failings. Human factors research has brought new and significant insights into the occurrence of error in healthcare, helping us identify systemic problems that injure patients while enhancing individual accountability and teamwork. This article introduces human factors science and its applicability to teamwork, surgical culture, medical error, and individual accountability.
From the time of Earnest Codman until recently, measuring and improving quality has variably been viewed as a supportive group in the hospital, or an irritating 'fringe' movement in health care. A more thoughtful view of quality improvement (QI) is that it is a central tenet of surgical professionalism, and really what we signed up for when we accepted the responsibility of healing patients using surgery as our methodology. The following article uses a patient safety event to highlight the successful use of a well-known method of improving care, while engaging trainees in the principles of physician engagement, accountability, and professionalism.
Variation in care and outcomes are common in the management of children with surgical diseases. Differences in the availability of resources, patient and family preferences, ever-increasing fiscal pressure, and lack of high-quality data to guide clinical decision making are just a few factors that contribute to both the over and under-utilization of healthcare resources. Identification of data-driven, value-based 'best practices' that are sensitive to differences in resource availability and patient preferences may be an important first step in establishing a practical framework for reducing unwarranted practice variation. The goal of this article is to explore the causes and influence of practice variation using appendicitis as a common condition to illustrate key concepts, and to propose solutions to mitigate unwarranted practice variation while preserving the spirit of innovation necessary to advance the field.
The role of the healthcare organization is shifting and must overcome the challenges of fragmented, costly care, and lack of evidence in practice, to reduce cost, ensure quality, and deliver high-value care. Notable gaps exist within the expected quality and delivery of pediatric healthcare, necessitating a change in the role of the healthcare organization. To realize these goals, the use of collaborative networks that leverage massive datasets to provide information for the development of learning healthcare systems will become increasingly necessary as efforts are made to narrow the gap in healthcare quality for children. By building upon the lessons learned from early collaborative efforts and other industries, operationalizing new technologies, encouraging clinical-community partnerships, and improving performance through transparent pursuit of meaningful goals, pediatric surgery can increase the adoption of best practices by developing collaborative networks that provide evidence-based clinical decision support and accelerate progress toward a new culture of delivering high-quality, high-value, and evidenced-based pediatric surgical care.
In surgery, quality improvement efforts have evolved from the traditional case-by-case review typical for morbidity and mortality conferences to more accurate and comprehensive data collection accomplished through participation in national registries such as the National Surgical Quality Improvement Program. Gaining administrative support to participate in these kinds of initiatives and commitment of the faculty and staff to make change in a data-driven manner rather than as a reaction to individual events can be a challenge. This article guides the reader through the process of interacting with administrative leadership to gain support for evidence-based quality improvement endeavors. General principles that are discussed include stakeholder engagement, taking advantage of preexisting resources, and the sharing of data in order to shape QI efforts and demonstrate their effectiveness.
In 2015, the American College of Surgeons (ACS) has begun to verify hospitals and ambulatory centers which meet consensus based optimal resource standards as 'Children柳s Surgical Centers.' The intent is to identify children-specific resources available within an institution and using a stratification system similar to the ACS Trauma Program match these to the needs of infants and children with surgical problems. This review briefly summarizes the history, supporting data and processes which drove this initiative.
Innovation is a crucial part of surgical history that has led to enhancements in the quality of surgical care. This comprises both changes which are incremental and those which are frankly disruptive in nature. There are situations where innovation is absolutely required in order to achieve quality improvement or process improvement. Alternatively, there are innovations that do not necessarily arise from some need, but simply are a new idea that might be better. All change must assure a significant commitment to patient safety and beneficence. Innovation would ideally enhance patient care quality and disease outcomes, as well stimulate and facilitate further innovation. The tensions between innovative advancement and patient safety, risk and reward, and demonstrated effectiveness versus speculative added value have created a contemporary 'surgical conundrum' that must be resolved by a delicate balance assuring optimal patient/provider outcomes. This article will explore this delicate balance and the rules that govern it. Recommendations are made to facilitate surgical innovation through clinical research. In addition, we propose options that investigators and institutions may use to address competing priorities.
The 62nd British Association of Paediatric Surgeons (BAPS) Annual Conference was held July 22-24, 2015, in Cardiff, Wales. This congress issue contains papers presented during the open sessions and transcripts based on invited lectures.
INTRODUCTION Pediatric surgical trainees worldwide face pressures from expansion of programs and training positions, subspecialization, regionalization, restrictions of working hours, and rigid training criteria. The era of apprenticeship training has long gone, and surgical education needs to be responsive and adapt to newer challenges. The aim of this study was to examine the teaching provision component of pediatric surgical training in the UK.   METHOD A national teaching survey was sent to UK pediatric surgery trainees in 2010 and compared to results of a repeat survey in 2015. Analysis was carried out to compare type of teaching, trends in teaching delivery, quality, and attendance over time.   RESULTS Regional variability was noted in teaching programs. Both provision of educational activities and ability to attend teaching improved between 2010 and 2015. Despite this, overall trainee satisfaction remained low, with 50% and 52% of respondents describing their teaching as 'good' or 'excellent' in 2010 and 2015, respectively (P=0.84). Seventy-five percent of centers provided simulation training, and 25% of respondents had regional teaching provided. Survey response rate was comparable between 2010 and 2015.   CONCLUSION Variability in national educational provision was observed. We suggest regular national audit of educational activity and responsive adaption to external pressures on training if competent surgeons are to be the product of contemporary pediatric surgery training programs.
Cardiovascular disease in children comprises a diverse collection of diseases involving multiple organ systems. Abnormality in children is predominately congenital but also may be acquired. Although noninvasive vascular imaging modalities such as magnetic resonance angiography and ultrasound lack ionizing radiation, with improving technology and an increased focus on radiation dose reduction, computed tomographic angiography (CTA) continues to have a role in evaluating cardiovascular disease in pediatric patients. This review focuses on specific considerations of CTA that the radiologist or ordering provider should consider when imaging the pediatric cardiovascular system.
The appropriate pain management in neonates and children is lacking. Factors that prevent the execution of proper pain relief vary from center to center. We studied the factors responsible for it in a surgical unit. We conducted a survey at a tertiary-level institute among the resident doctors and nursing staff by means of an informal questionnaire analyzing their basic knowledge. The questions pertained mainly to pain assessment, analgesic usage, role of opioids, and formal training, and the responses so obtained were analyzed under these four headings. Seventy-three percent (22/30) of the residents and 74% (26/35) of the nursing staff knew about pain assessment scoring system in pediatric patients. However, assessment of pain in emergency cases was always done by only 6.6% of the residents. Effect of analgesia on severity of pain was never recorded by 33% (10/30) of the residents. Eighty-six percent (26/30) of the residents and 91% (32/35) of the nursing staff had adequate knowledge about analgesic dosage and interval for routine use. Ten of the 30 (33%) residents believed that analgesic administration in an acute abdomen, before definitive diagnosis, will always mask the symptoms. During a minor procedure, 56% (17/30) of the residents always used analgesia. Only 3.3% (1/30) of residents and 2.8% (1/35) of the nursing staff had received a structured training for pain management. Although, 93% (28/30) of the residents claimed to know about the safety of use of opioids, only 46% (14/30) used them routinely as analgesics. Pain management in surgical neonates and children is often ignored. Lack of formal training, inadequate knowledge, and standard protocols are the barriers in our setup, which may in turn be due to overwhelming attention given to the surgical condition.
BACKGROUND Fecal incontinence (FI) in children is frequently encountered in pediatric practice, and often occurs in combination with urinary incontinence. In most cases, FI is constipation-associated, but in 20% of children presenting with FI, no constipation or other underlying cause can be found - these children suffer from functional nonretentive fecal incontinence (FNRFI).   OBJECTIVE To summarize the evidence-based recommendations of the International Children's Continence Society for the evaluation and management of children with FNRFI.   RECOMMENDATIONS Functional nonretentive fecal incontinence is a clinical diagnosis based on medical history and physical examination. Except for determining colonic transit time, additional investigations are seldom indicated in the workup of FNRFI. Treatment should consist of education, a nonaccusatory approach, and a toileting program encompassing a daily bowel diary and a reward system. Special attention should be paid to psychosocial or behavioral problems, since these frequently occur in affected children. Functional nonretentive fecal incontinence is often difficult to treat, requiring prolonged therapies with incremental improvement on treatment and frequent relapses.
Developmental pharmacology influences the safety profile of drugs in pediatrics. Altered pharmacokinetics and/ or pharmacodynamics of drugs make pediatric patients susceptible to adverse drug reactions (ADRs), especially infants and newborns. Since the efficacy/ safety balance of most available drugs has not been formally evaluated in pediatric clinical trials, optimal dosing is rarely known in pediatrics. Suboptimal pediatric drug formulations make dose optimization even more difficult exposing pediatric patients to medication errors like overdosing and associated ADRs. We provide an overview of pediatric ADRs and discuss recent regulatory and pharmacological measures to understand and reduce risk of ADRs in pediatric patients.
BACKGROUND/AIM Despite the safety and high diagnostic yield of endoscopic ultrasound guided fine needle aspiration (EUS FNA) for the evaluation of gastrointestinal diseases in adults, literature discussing the therapeutic use of EUS FNA in pediatrics remains limited. This study reports our experience with the use of EUS in children with pancreaticobiliary disorders.   PATIENTS AND METHODS A retrospective study was conducted to evaluate safety, clinical utility, and impact of therapeutic EUS on the management of children (<18 years) at a tertiary referral center. Data were collected from January 1, 2011, to April 30, 2014. Patient demographics, clinical characteristics, and EUS procedure data were reviewed. Continuous variables were described using the mean and standard deviation. Categorical variables were described using frequencies and percentages.   RESULTS A total of 6 therapeutic EUS procedures were performed in 5 children (3 F/2 M). The mean age was 13 years (range 6-17) with a mean body mass index of 28.2 (range 18.5-38.8). The indications for EUS procedures were abdominal pain with chronic pancreatitis (3) and management of symptomatic pancreaticobiliary cysts/pseudocysts observed on previous imaging (3). All procedures were performed under general anesthesia. The 6 therapeutic procedures performed were celiac plexus block (3), cyst gastrostomy with stents placement (2), and cyst aspiration using EUS FNA (1). A celiac plexus block effectively relieved abdominal pain in 2 patients with chronic pancreatitis. Cyst gastrostomy successfully resulted in pseudocyst resolution in the follow up imaging of 2 patients (up to 6 months after the procedure). Cyst aspiration with EUS guided FNA resulted in cyst resolution and confirmation of the benign nature of the cyst in 1 patient. All the procedures were successfully completed with no reported complications.   CONCLUSION The therapeutic use of endoscopic ultrasound in the pediatric population is safe and has a high success rate.
Global surgery has come of age as an emerging discipline poised to impact health care worldwide with a concerted plan of action and wide stakeholder support. Much less can be said about global pediatric surgery, despite a growing awareness of the global burden of pediatric surgical disease. The author describes his exposure to this burden of disease as a pediatric surgeon working in resource-limited countries in Africa and outlines his personal journey from recognizing the burden to measuring it and eventually attempting to address it. The article, based on the Hugh Greenwood International Lecture at the 2015 BAPS Congress, reviews what is known so far within global pediatric surgery, what is currently happening, and what lies ahead.
BACKGROUND Burn and scald injuries are common in children. First aid advice for paediatric burns is offered by a range of health organisations and charities in the UK. Despite this, children still present to emergency departments and burn services having received little or inadequate first aid.   METHOD A survey was undertaken regarding the content and consistency of the advice given by a cross-section of UK health organisations involved in first aid prevention and education. The advice was subsequently examined to determine if it was evidence-based.   RESULTS Our study has demonstrated inconsistencies in the content of the first aid advice provided by the 21 organisations included in the study. Seventy-one percent of the information was only available online. The temperature, method and duration of cooling varied substantially, as did the advice recommended for the removal of clothing and jewellery and methods for covering the burn immediately after injury. Results from the literature review concluded the following based on available evidence; cool the burn with running tap water for 20min, remove clothing and jewellery and cover the burn with cling film or a clean non-adhesive dressing.   CONCLUSIONS This study highlights the lack of consistency between first aid guidance provided by health organisations and charities in the UK.
Millions of microorganisms inhabit the human body and affect its homeostasis in multiple ways. Alterations in this microbial community have implications for the health and survival of the human hosts. It is believed that these microorganisms should be included as part of the human genome because of their influence on human physiology hence the term 'microbiome' is commonly used to refer to these microbes along with their genetic make-up and their environmental interactions. In this article we attempt to provide an insight into this recently discovered vital organ of the human body which is yet to be fully explored. We herein discuss the composition and role of microbiome in human health and disease with a special emphasis in children and culture-independent techniques employed in mapping of the microbiome. Alteration in the gut microbiome has been associated with causation of several paediatric diseases like infantile colic, necrotizing enterocolitis, asthma, atopy, obesity, type -1 diabetes, and autism. Atopic dermatitis and psoriasis have also been associated with changes in the cutaneous microbiome. Respiratory microbial imbalances during infancy have been linked with wheezing and bronchial asthma. Dysbiosis in the regional microbiome has been linked with caries, periodontitis, and chronic rhinosinusitis. The future therapeutic implications of this rapidly evolving area of research are also highlighted.
Life-threatening pediatric emergencies are relatively rare in the prehospital setting; therefore, the treating emergency physician may not always be familiar with and well trained in these situations. However, pediatric emergencies require early recognition and initiation of specific diagnostic and therapeutic interventions to prevent further complications. Treatment of pediatric emergencies follows current recommendations as detailed in published international guidelines. The aim of this review is to provide specific information with regard to respiratory, cardiac and neurological medical emergencies commnly encountered in children in the prehospital setting. It is not the aim of this review article to provide specific guidance with regard to a variety of surgical emergencies. Due to improved treatment modalities the emergency medical team may also be confronted with acutely ill children with very severe and complex underlying clinical syndromes (e.g. complex cardiac malformations and syndromic genetic disorders). This article also provides specific information with regard to treatment of this susceptible and vulnerable patient cohort.
Many children require emergency foreign body removal by bronchoscopy. Although a flexible bronchoscope is frequently used for removal of a bronchial foreign body in children, this procedure is difficult in children with a narrow tracheal lumen, even using a thin flexible bronchoscope. This report describes the use of a multiport airway adaptor to remove a bronchial foreign body with a flexible bronchoscope. The thicker forceps etc. were passed alongside the flexible bronchoscope through the adaptor. These findings suggest that this multiport airway adaptor will be useful as an advanced tool for foreign body removal in pediatric patients.
BACKGROUND (Analgo-) sedations for diagnostic and/or therapeutic procedures form part of the daily clinical routine for pediatric patients. National and international medical specialist associations have published guidelines indicating the general conditions of these procedures, yet the recommendations are not always consistent. Since anesthesiological activities are increasingly performed by nonanesthesiologists at our hospital, the Pediatric Clinic of the University Hospital of Saarland considered it necessary to develop an in-house standard.   MATERIAL AND METHODS On the basis of a standard dating back to 2005, which was developed and clinically applied by two of the authors of this article, we created our 'Homburg standard', taking into account the guidelines of the specialist associations and the international literature. This standard covers patient information, the consumption of food and drink, monitoring before, during and after the sedation as well as documentation. We will present the process of how our standard was established by analyzing protocols of the 'old' standard-applied for a period of 18 months-and the application of our standard to two new studies performed at our hospital.   RESULTS In total, 159 sedations of the 18-month reference period could be evaluated; the two studies accounted for 72 sedations for diagnostic and/or interventional cardiac catheter examinations and 40 sedations for outpatient TEE examinations. None of the procedures was associated with complications endangering the safety of a patient. Whereas the documentation of the two studies was nearly complete, it varied considerably in the case of the 159 sedations, depending on how much time had passed since the most recent training.   CONCLUSION Our standard is a practicable and safe method of performing sedations and analgosedations in pediatric patients. In addition, this standard allows clinical studies to be carried out and evaluated, taking into account certain organizational measures. The development of a specific guideline by the DGKJ and/or the GNPI is considered desirable.
OBJECTIVE Teach-back may improve communication, but has not been well studied in the emergency setting. The goal of this study was to characterize perceptions of teach-back in the emergency department (ED) by health literacy.   METHODS We conducted an in-depth interview study on the ED discharge process examining teach-back techniques in two tertiary care centers (adult and pediatric), using asthma as a model system for health communication. Participants were screened for health literacy, and purposive sampling was used to balance the sample between literacy groups. Interviews were conducted until thematic saturation was reached for each literacy group at each site; audiotaped, transcribed, coded, and analyzed using a modified grounded theory approach.   RESULTS Fifty-one interviews were completed (31 parents; 20 patients). Across all groups, participants felt that teach-back would help them confirm learning, avoid forgetting key information, and improve doctor-patient communication. Participants with limited health literacy raised concerns about teach-back being condescending, but suggested techniques for introducing the technique to avoid this perception.   CONCLUSION Most participants were supportive of teach-back techniques, but many were concerned about perceived judgment from providers.   PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS Future investigations should focus on feasibility and efficacy of teach-back in the ED and using participant generated wording to introduce teach-back.
BACKGROUND Databases of suspected adverse drug reactions (ADRs) are a cornerstone of pharmacovigilance. With increasing numbers of reports, additional statistical approaches are needed to better use the data.   AIM The present study was aimed at elucidating the European Medicines Agency's (EMA) use of a novel 'paediatric' query to analyse the data in its ADR database 'EudraVigilance'.   METHODS The proportional reporting ratio (PRR) is a measure of disproportionality for which the underlying principle is that a drug-event pair of interest is reported more often than expected relative to an independence model. The EMA's paediatric query, based on PRRs, was applied to the data in EudraVigilance to investigate the extent to which the known association between enalapril and renal toxicity was reflected in reported ADRs comparing children with adults and with adjustment for the effect of multiplicity.   RESULTS The comparison of PRRs for children (14.91, 95% confidence interval [CI] 13.05-17.04) versus adults (2.66, 95% CI 2.52-2.82) confirmed a higher risk of renal ADRs with enalapril when used in children compared with all other medicines and compared with adults.   CONCLUSIONS The EMA's paediatric query can be used to highlight an imbalance for a drug-event pair among ADRs for a medicine when used in children and as compared with adults. Applying the query in practice can help the EMA to decide on whether stand-alone paediatric medicine development is warranted, and which, if any, further studies are necessary. Ongoing evaluation of the query is contributing to the development of new methods and guidance.
AIM To develop and validate a scoring system for a training assessment tool using a box trainer which can objectively demonstrate progression in laparoscopic skills.   METHOD 170 assessments were performed over a 5-year period by doctors working in a busy paediatric surgical department. Each participant was scored based on experience and then undertook six laparoscopic tasks in a box trainer in a dry skills lab. The quicker and more accurate the performance, the lower the score. Validity and reliability tests were applied.   RESULTS Pearson correlation coefficient demonstrated that more experienced surgeons performed better than novices with an r of -0.63 (p혻<혻0.001). The mean assessment scores improved (reduced) with increasing experience score [4140 (0-20), 2696 (21-40), 1969 (>40) p혻<혻0.001]. Improvement in score was seen at all experience levels with greatest improvement seen in the less experienced (2315, 1820, 1571 p혻<혻0.001). Cronbach's alpha was 0.70 and the intraclass correlation coefficient for test-retest reliability was 0.81.   CONCLUSION Construct validity with adequate reliability has been demonstrated for this simple training tool and scoring system. All experience levels demonstrated improvement in their laparoscopic skills by simulation training in a laparoscopic box trainer.
BACKGROUND The primary vasculitides are rare conditions in childhood. The most common disease subtypes are Sch철nlein-Henoch purpura and Kawasaki's syndrome, which frequently have a self-limiting course. In the majority of vasculitides, the etiology remains unknown. Environmental exposure, including infections, is suspected to trigger an autoinflammatory response in predisposed individuals.   GOAL The aim of this review is to present the various aspects of childhood vasculitis.   MATERIALS AND METHODS Reviews and special original papers on childhood vasculitis, published classification criteria and current therapy guidelines were reviewed and summarized.   RESULTS The classification of vasculitides in childhood has been modified from the previous adult Chapel Hill classification for vasculitides in 2008. Most therapy recommendations for children are adapted from results of studies in adults. This review covers the current classifications, pathogenesis, clinical manifestations and therapy recommendations for children.   DISCUSSION Although etiology and pathogenesis of many vasculitides in childhood are still unknown, clarifying diagnostic methods and effective therapeutic options are available. The knowledge about various forms of disease manifestation may contribute to an early diagnosis and timely initiation of treatment, which may prevent devastating irreversible impairment.
Although antimicrobials are commonly used in children, it is important to remember that they can have a profound impact on this unique patient population. Inadvertent consequences of antiinfective use in children include antimicrobial resistance, infection caused by Clostridium difficile, increased risk of obesity, and adverse drug events. In addition, compared with adults, children have different dosing requirements, antimicrobial formulation needs, pharmacokinetics, and antimicrobial susceptibility profiles. Therefore, pediatric-specific antimicrobial stewardship efforts are needed to promote appropriate use of antimicrobials in children. The primary purposes of this review article are to provide a rationale behind pediatric-focused antimicrobial stewardship and to describe currently available evidence regarding the initiatives of pediatric antimicrobial stewardship programs (ASPs). A literature search of the Medline database was performed (from inception through March 2015). The studies included in this review focus on antimicrobial stewardship interventions in inpatient pediatric settings. Ten inpatient studies involving pediatric-focused antimicrobial stewardship interventions were identified from the published literature. Four studies used the core strategy of prospective audit with feedback; two used prior approval. The remaining four used supplemental antimicrobial stewardship strategies (guidelines, clinical pathways, and computerized decision support tools). In general, the interventions resulted in decreased antimicrobial use, reduced antimicrobial costs, and fewer prescribing errors. Children have unique medical needs related to antimicrobials and deserve focused ASP efforts. The literature regarding pediatric antimicrobial stewardship interventions is limited, but published interventions may serve as paradigms for developing pediatric ASPs as demonstrated by the general success of these interventions.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES In 2002, Congress mandated that the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) monitor postmarketing pediatric adverse events and present safety reports to the FDA's Pediatric Advisory Committee (PAC). These safety reviews play a critical role in the postmarketing surveillance and identification of pediatric safety issues. This article follows a previous review ending in 2007 and summarizes 6 years of recent pediatric safety reporting, recommendations by the PAC, and actions by the FDA, including labeling changes.   METHODS An analysis of the FDA's PAC safety reviews performed from November 2007 through September 2013 was conducted. PAC recommendations for subsequent labeling changes, future studies, or other safety issues were reviewed.   RESULTS There were 6930 serious adverse event reports in 181 reviews. These findings resulted in 33 (18%) recommended labeling changes, and 21 (64%) of these changes were adopted. For 10 products, information was added to the Warning and Precautions section of the label. The PAC also discussed or recommended additional studies for certain products.   CONCLUSIONS This article highlights the importance of the FDA's ongoing pediatric postmarketing safety reviews of regulated products, advice from the PAC, and FDA actions in the best interest of pediatric patients. This mandated process facilitates detection of safety concerns that may not be identified in prelicensure clinical trials. It continues to identify critical safety concerns, including unlabeled adverse events, frequent off-label use, product misuse, and secondary exposures in children.
Delayed villous maturation (DVM) has been associated with an increased risk of adverse pregnancy outcome, including stillbirth, in the late third trimester, but there are limited published data. Moreover, it is recognized that the assessment of villous maturation is subjective and hampered by both intraobserver and interobserver variability. This audit aims to assess concordance in the reporting of DVM among pediatric pathologists at a single specialist center to improve reproducibility of this potentially important diagnosis. This is a retrospective review of singleton placentas from pregnancies at 35 weeks gestation or greater submitted for histopathologic examination between June 2013 and December 2013. Placental slides were reviewed independently by 4 pediatric pathologists, blinded to the original report, apart from gestational age; villous maturation was assessed as appropriate, accelerated, or delayed for the stated gestational age. A total of 464 placental histopathology reports were reviewed, of which 164 were greater than 35 weeks gestation; of those, 42 (26%) were originally reported as DVM. Following the audit slide review, 38 cases (23%) were assessed to show DVM by at least 1 pathologist. Consensus, with at least 3 pathologists agreeing to a diagnosis of DVM, was achieved in only 14 cases (9% of all cases reviewed; 37% of all cases called DVM). However, the proportion of overall agreement between 2 of the pathologists was 0.92. Concordance for DVM is poor among pathologists and subject to much interobserver variability. Consistency may be improved by consensus histologic review of all the placentas in which the diagnosis of DVM is being considered and stringent application of the published diagnostic criteria.
Sleep deprivation and sleep disorders are commonly seen in children and adolescents. They are often undiagnosed and undertreated. A balance of circadian rhythm and homeostatic drive determine sleep quality, quantity, and timing, which changes across the developmental years. Environmental and lifestyle factors can affect sleep quality and quantity and lead to sleep deprivation. A comprehensive assessment of sleep disorders includes parental report, children's self-report, and school functioning. Diagnostic tools are used in diagnosing and treating sleep disorders.
BACKGROUND Increased risk for infertility from cancer treatment and fear of health impairment in their offspring may prevent survivors of childhood cancer from having own children. Even though most studies report no increased risk for malformations, in our German fertility study 2008 a higher occurrence of cleft lip and palate was found in offspring of former patients.   METHODS Since 2010 we assess offspring's health in a survey-based multicenter study, comparing diseases, well-being, healthcare utilization and health-related behavior between offspring from survivors, siblings or the general population. Within a first nationwide survey wave survivors who were known to have at least one child by previous fertility studies, received a questionnaire supported by the German Childhood Cancer Registry. Questionnaires were based on the KiGGS study on children's health in the German general population conducted by the Robert-Koch Institute (n=17,641).   RESULTS Questionnaires on 418 children were answered by 65% (254/393) of survivors contacted to participate in the first nationwide offspring study wave. Participants were more likely to be female (p<0.01), to have achieved higher educational levels (p<0.05) and to be a survivor of a soft tissue tumor (p<0.05). Former patients expressed moderate to high anxiety for the occurrence of cancer in 74% and feared other diseases in their children in 20%.   CONCLUSION Offspring health is a topic of major relevance to former patients. Our offspring study is currently being extended to ~1500 offspring of childhood cancer survivors in Europe.
BACKGROUND We investigated an increase in Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) among pediatric oncology patients.   METHODS CDI cases were defined as first C difficile positive stool tests between December 1, 2010, and September 6, 2012, in pediatric oncology patients receiving inpatient or outpatient care at a single hospital. A case-control study was performed to identify CDI risk factors, infection prevention and antimicrobial prescribing practices were assessed, and environmental sampling was conducted. Available isolates were strain-typed by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis.   RESULTS An increase in hospital-onset CDI cases was observed from June-August 2012. Independent risk factors for CDI included hospitalization in the bone marrow transplant ward and exposure to computerized tomography scanning or cefepime in the prior 12혻weeks. Cefepime use increased beginning in late 2011, reflecting a practice change for patients with neutropenic fever. There were 13 distinct strain types among 22 available isolates. Hospital-onset CDI rates decreased to near-baseline levels with enhanced infection prevention measures, including environmental cleaning and prolonged contact isolation.   CONCLUSION C difficile strain diversity associated with a cluster of CDI among pediatric oncology patients suggests a need for greater understanding of modes and sources of transmission and strategies to reduce patient susceptibility to CDI. Further research is needed on the risk of CDI with cefepime and its use as primary empirical treatment for neutropenic fever.
AIM The ability to communicate serious news to patients and families in a caring and compassionate way is a critical skill for physicians. This study explores the impact of a novel communication skills workshop that included bereaved parents in role play on pediatric residents' confidence to communicate serious news.   METHODS Following the workshop, pediatric residents were surveyed to assess their perceived efficacy of the educational intervention. The survey included anchored response and open-ended questions to yield qualitative and quantitative results.   RESULTS After completing the workshop, residents' confidence in discussing goals, managing emotions, and expressing empathy all increased significantly. Residents reported that the inclusion of bereaved parents was beneficial since it made the experience more realistic. In addition, they believed their ability to communicate with patients and families had improved.   CONCLUSIONS Including bereaved parents in this communication skills workshop improved the residents' confidence in discussing serious topics and enhanced the reality of the experience.
BACKGROUND In December 2013, the French public health authorities recommended the use of Bexsero짰 (meningococcus B vaccine) in areas with endemic risk and for patients at risk for invasive meningococcal B disease. In this context, InfoVac-France performed a national survey a few months after the implementation of the vaccine to evaluate physicians' perceptions and experiences with this new vaccine.   METHODS This survey was proposed by email in April 2014 to the InfoVac network. An initial email explained the purpose of this study and proposed an online questionnaire.   RESULTS Between April 29 and May 16, 2014, 1502 physicians answered online: 502 GPs (33%), 939 pediatricians (63%), and 61 other specialists (4%). In response, 91% of physicians would like to use this vaccine and 87% of pediatricians versus 50% of GPs knew that the vaccine was marketed. Physicians had been informed of the vaccine mostly via the InfoVac network (61%). The immunization schedules for all ages were slightly known by physicians (9% for GPs and 43% of pediatricians). This vaccination was still rarely proposed (18%) more often because it was not reimbursed to patients (62%). Although 39% of physicians were planning to propose the vaccine to their patients, 54% remained undecided. A total of 9% of pediatricians and 2% of GPs had already used this vaccination.   CONCLUSION This InfoVac-France survey shows that physicians would support the implementation of this vaccine, but questions persist as to its effectiveness, impact on carriage, and duration of protection.
INTRODUCTION According to the European Society of Pediatric Oncology (SIOPE) standard of care guidelines, high-quality care of children and adolescents with cancer needs to be delivered by well-trained multidisciplinary teams in specialist centers working with designated shared-care local centers in a so-called hub-and-spoke model. The Dipl척me Inter-Universitaire d'Oncologie P챕diatrique (DIUOP) is the only European training program in pediatric oncology in French for all physicians involved in care of patients with pediatric malignancies. In agreement with the SIOPE syllabus, the DIUOP is composed of training courses (120h), on-site practical training in a specialist center, and a research project to be defended before an examining board.   METHOD All graduates received a questionnaire to describe their current professional position. A comprehensive PubMed analysis retrieved all papers published form DIUOP research projects.   RESULTS From 2000 to 2011, 290 physicians were trained: 242 pediatricians, 21 surgeons, and 19 radiation therapists. Eight had another specialty including imaging, hematology, and pathology. Ninety-two were initially trained outside of France: 50% in Europe (mainly in Italy, Belgium, and Switzerland), 42% in Africa and the Middle East, and 8% in South America. Of the 266 graduates, 74% answered the questionnaire, and 90% of them take care of children and adolescents with cancer. Sixty-nine articles, i.e., one out of four research projects, were published in 34 journals with a median impact factor of 3.5 (0-22.6), 85% in English.   CONCLUSION DIUOP is the only French-speaking European education program providing a high-quality, professionalizing, and comprehensive multidisciplinary training program for French and international specialists taking care of children and adolescents with cancer.
AIM Virtual patients (VPs) are a one-of-a-kind e-learning resource, fostering clinical reasoning skills through clinical case examples. The combination with face-to-face teaching is important for their successful integration, which is referred to as 'blended learning'. So far little is known about the use of VPs in the field of continuing medical education and residency training. The pilot study presented here inquired the application of VPs in the framework of a pediatric residency revision course.   METHODS Around 200 participants of a pediatric nephology lecture ('nephrotic and nephritic syndrome in children') were offered two VPs as a wrap-up session at the revision course of the German Society for Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine (DGKJ) 2009 in Heidelberg, Germany. Using a web-based survey form, different aspects were evaluated concerning the learning experiences with VPs, the combination with the lecture, and the use of VPs for residency training in general.   RESULTS N=40 evaluable survey forms were returned (approximately 21%). The return rate was impaired by a technical problem with the local Wi-Fi firewall. The participants perceived the work-up of the VPs as a worthwhile learning experience, with proper preparation for diagnosing and treating real patients with similar complaints. Case presentations, interactivity, and locally and timely independent repetitive practices were, in particular, pointed out. On being asked about the use of VPs in general for residency training, there was a distinct demand for more such offers.   CONCLUSION VPs may reasonably complement existing learning activities in residency training.
BACKGROUND Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) is a multifactorial condition with complex pathogenesis characterized by spontaneous or stimulus-induced pain that is disproportionate to the inciting event. It is also commonly accompanied by a myriad of autonomic and motor disturbances in highly variable combinations. This condition has been underreported in children until recently. Consequently, the management of CRPS in the pediatric population presents an even greater challenge than in adults, partly because there is a lack of clinical data concerning the efficacy of the diverse treatment methods available, and partly because successful treatment of CRPS involves a multidisciplinary approach. There is a variety of invasive methods to the treatment of CRPS, but scarce pediatric-focused trials have been published to date.   OBJECTIVE To examine and analyze the data currently existing for the invasive management of CRPS in children. It further suggests a management algorithm based in the evidence reviewed and our team experience.   STUDY DESIGN A comprehensive review of invasive management for pediatric CRPS.   SETTING Academic hospital in Spain.   METHODS A comprehensive review of all the evidence published to date was conducted. Four databases (PubMed, Medline, Web of Science, Embase, and Cochrane databases) were searched for articles published from 1980 to 2014. The eligibility criteria were any paper published in English or Spanish where a non-conventional approach was used to manage pediatric CRPS. Two independent reviewers extracted the data.   RESULTS Many case series have reported the use of interventional management with positive results; however, there is not a single randomized control trial to date comparing the conservative and the invasive management in children. The largest series of pediatric cases showed that between 29% to 35% of children with CRPS needed interventional measures to manage this condition successfully. Sympathetic blocks and spinal drug infusion emerge as the most reported techniques; the spinal infusion of drugs together with the spinal cord stimulation being the most successfully employed. Based upon the available evidence with regard to effect and complications, we recommend an algorithm for the management of pediatric CRPS.   LIMITATIONS The limitations of this study include the paucity of literature, lack of randomized trials, and lack of quality evidence.   CONCLUSIONS Invasive techniques have been used to treat CRPS over the last few decades; however, the evidence for their use is still very weak. Invasive management should be contemplated only when high-standard conservative management has failed to work.
PURPOSE Clinical trials data from National Cancer Institute (NCI)-funded cooperative oncology group trials could be enhanced by merging with external data sources. Merging without direct patient identifiers would provide additional patient privacy protections. We sought to develop and validate a matching algorithm that uses only indirect patient identifiers.   METHODS We merged the data from two Phase III Children's Oncology Group (COG) trials for de novo acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with the Pediatric Health Information Systems (PHIS). We developed a stepwise matching algorithm that used indirect identifiers including treatment site, gender, birth year, birth month, enrollment year and enrollment month. Results from the stepwise algorithm were compared against the direct merge method that used date of birth, treatment site, and gender. The indirect merge algorithm was developed on AAML0531 and validated on AAML1031.   RESULTS Of 415 patients enrolled on the AAML0531 trial at PHIS centers, we successfully matched 378 (91.1%) patients using the indirect stepwise algorithm. Comparison to the direct merge result suggested that 362 (95.7%) matches identified by the indirect merge algorithm were concordant with the direct merge result. When validating the indirect stepwise algorithm using the AAML1031 trial, we successfully matched 157 out of 165 patients (95.2%) and 150 (95.5%) of the indirectly merged matches were concordant with the directly merged matches.   CONCLUSIONS These data demonstrate that patients enrolled on COG clinical trials can be successfully merged with PHIS administrative data using a stepwise algorithm based on indirect patient identifiers. The merged data sets can be used as a platform for comparative effectiveness and cost effectiveness studies.
Dermatologists have witnessed the increasing availability of novel biologic response modifiers for the treatment of inflammatory and autoimmune diseases in recent years. The most common dermatologic indication for the use of biologic response modifiers in adults is psoriasis, but the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has not approved any of these agents for use in any dermatologic disease in children with the exception of omalizumab, and as such, use in this population is considered off-label. In this review, we focus on the use of these agents in children to treat inflammatory skin diseases other than psoriasis, including atopic dermatitis, hidradenitis suppurativa, pemphigus vulgaris, bullous pemphigoid, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, with an emphasis on the use of etanercept, infliximab, rituximab, omalizumab, and ustekinumab. By highlighting novel uses of these agents, particularly for the treatment of dermatologic conditions for which optimal therapies are yet to be established, we hope to raise awareness of the potential use of this class of medications to treat inflammatory skin diseases in children.
UNLABELLED Limited evidence is available about varicella-zoster virus (VZV) infection among pediatric cancer patients in developing countries, which raises questions about the generalizability of VZV vaccine recommendations for pediatric cancer patients (derived from developed countries) to these settings. We assessed the incidence and case-fatality of VZV infection at three institutions in developing countries (Argentina, Mexico, and Nicaragua). Individuals eligible for our study were aged <20 years and actively receiving cancer-directed therapy. We estimated a summary incidence rate (IR) and case-fatality risk with corresponding 95 % confidence limits (CL) of VZV infection across sites using random-effects models. Our study population comprised 511 pediatric cancer patients, of whom 64 % were aged <10 years, 58 % were male, and 58 % were diagnosed with leukemia. We observed a total of 10 infections during 44,401 person-days of follow-up across the 3 sites (IR=2.3, 95 % CL 1.2, 4.2). The summary case-fatality risk was 10 % (95 % CL 1.4, 47 %) based on one death.   CONCLUSION Our results suggest low incidence and case-fatality of VZV infections among pediatric cancer patients in three developing countries. VZV vaccine recommendations for pediatric cancer patients in developed countries may be generalizable to developing countries.   WHAT IS KNOWN  Current recommendations, based on evidence from pediatric cancer patients in developed countries, contraindicate varicella-zoster virus (VZV) vaccination until completion of cancer-directed therapy and recovery of immune function.  The generalizability of these VZV vaccine recommendations to pediatric cancer patients in developing countries is unknown because of limited information about the incidence and case-fatality of VZV in these settings. What is New:  Our results suggest low incidence and case-fatality of VZV infections among pediatric cancer patients in three developing countries.  VZV vaccine recommendations based on evidence from pediatric cancer patients in developed countries may be generalizable to pediatric cancer patients in developing countries.
BACKGROUND Global health practitioners have a responsibility to deliver appropriate and effective health education to patients and families. We demonstrate how residents in a global health elective can utilize Kern's six-step approach to develop educational products for patients and their families.   METHODS Residents completed a pre-curricular survey of knowledge, skills and attitudes regarding curriculum development. Kern's six-steps were introduced through a series of lectures; workshop exercises highlighted the application of each step: (i) Problem identification and general needs assessment, (ii) targeted needs assessment, (iii) goals and objectives, (iv) educational strategies, (v) implementation and (vi) evaluation and feedback. Residents used the six-steps to develop health education projects they subsequently implemented locally and abroad. Reflective exercises were conducted after utilization of each of the six steps. Residents also completed a post-curricular assessment of knowledge, skills and attitudes regarding curriculum development.   RESULTS Mean scores on pre- and post-curricular self-assessment of knowledge were 18 and 26.5 (out of 28); skills 19.8 and 33.5 (out of 35); and attitudes 13.3 and 19.8 (out of 21), respectively. Reflective exercises highlighted resident sentiment that the six steps enabled them to be more thoughtful of the interventions they were undertaking in communities locally and abroad. They were impressed how the model allowed them to ensure their goals were aligned with those of patients and their families, fully engage their audience and effectively implement the curricula.   DISCUSSION Kern's six-step approach to curriculum development is an effective method for global health residents to develop educational products for patients and families.
OBJECTIVES Tympanostomy tube (tube) placement is the most common pediatric otolaryngologic surgery in the United States. Most surgeries are performed in an operating-room setting under general anesthesia due to the lack of tolerable and reliable local anesthesia methods suitable for pediatric patients, and concerns regarding myringotomy procedures in a mobile child. This study evaluated the safety and efficacy of an iontophoresis system (IPS) to achieve local anesthesia in combination with a tube delivery system (TDS) for tube placement in pediatric patients in an office setting.   METHODS A prospective, single-arm study was conducted at 9 otolaryngology sites in the United States. Participants included pediatric patients aged 6 months to less than 22 years requiring tube placement. Patients were prepared for the procedure using behavioral support techniques and tube placement was attempted under local anesthesia using the IPS in conjunction with the TDS. No physical restraints were allowed and no anxiolytics, analgesics, or sedatives were permitted. Safety was assessed through the occurrence of adverse events and success rates for tube placement under local anesthesia were determined. Tolerability of the procedure was evaluated using the 5-point Wong-Baker FACES Pain Rating Scale and parental satisfaction was assessed using a postoperative survey.   RESULTS Seventy patients (127 ears) were enrolled in the study [mean (SD) age=7.0 (3.9) years]. No serious adverse events occurred in the 70 enrolled patients. Tube placement using the TDS was successful in 96.6% (114/118) of attempted ears. A single TDS was required in 105 ears, while more than 1 device was required in 9 ears. Of the 70 patients enrolled in study, 63 (90.0%) successfully received tubes in all indicated ears during their in-office visit. The mean (SD) change in pain score from pre-anesthesia to post-surgery was +0.9 (1.8). Favorable ratings for overall satisfaction with the in-office procedure were obtained from 96.9% (63/65) of respondents. Tube retention at 2 weeks was 99.1%. As only 15 patients were enrolled who were 3 years old or younger, the ability to generalize these results to younger patients is limited.   CONCLUSIONS In this study, use of the IPS and TDS technologies enabled safe, reliable, and tolerable placement of tubes in awake, unrestrained pediatric patients.
There is a paucity of research exploring barriers to non-oral medicines administration in paediatric patients; however, these undoubtedly influence medicines adherence. Studies conducted with healthcare professionals have identified various issues with the administration and acceptance of non-oral medicines and devices (Venables et al., 2012; Walsh et al., 2015). EMA (2014) guidelines specify that formulation teams should demonstrate 'acceptability' of paediatric formulations when developing pharmaceutical formulations. Semi-structured interviews exploring barriers to administering non-oral medicines were conducted with young persons and the parents/legal guardians of children (0-17 years) with chronic conditions at the University Hospital of Coventry and Warwickshire, UK. 90 children prescribed a total of 148 non-oral medicines were recruited to the study; 88 barriers to administering non-oral medicines were reported. The most commonly reported barriers were: poor acceptance of face mask/difficulties with spacer for inhaled formulations (38% of reports); disliking parenteral/preferring alternative formulations (38% of reports); greasy texture of topical preparations; difficulty with administering an ocular ointment and the large dose volume of a nasal preparation. Formulation teams should consider the use of child-friendly, age-appropriate designs to improve usability and acceptance, thus medicines adherence. These findings should be used to inform future development of non-oral formulations and devices, suitable in terms of safety, efficacy and acceptability to paediatric patients.
OBJECTIVE This article addresses a current need in psychological practice by describing a financially feasible model that moves toward integrated care of behavioral health services in a pediatric endocrinology clinic.   METHODS Financial information (costs and revenue associated with behavioral health services) for the clinic, over an 18-month period (July 2012 to December 2013), was obtained through the hospital's financial department. The clinic meets one half day per week.   RESULTS Over the 18-month period, the behavioral health services generated a net gain of $3661.45 in the favor of the clinic. We determined that the psychologist and clinical psychology residents needed to see a total of four patients per half-day clinic for the clinic to 'break-even.'   CONCLUSIONS We describe one financially feasible way of integrating behavioral health services into a pediatric endocrinology clinic in the hope that this will be generalizable to other medical settings.
Individualized learning plans (ILPs) are helpful tools that can facilitate learner-centered education and can be used with all levels of learners. We introduce the concept of ILPs, the rationale for their use in pediatric and adolescent gynecology education, and review the challenges that learners might face in creating ILPs, and describes how educators can support learners during this process.
STUDY OBJECTIVE The purpose of this study was to assess whether variability exists in the management of acute abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB) in adolescents between pediatric Emergency Department (ED) physicians, pediatric gynecologists, and adolescent medicine specialists.   DESIGN Retrospective chart review.   SETTING Tertiary care medical center ED.   PARTICIPANTS, INTERVENTIONS, AND MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES We included girls aged 9-22혻years who presented from July 2008 to June 2014 with the complaint of acute AUB. Patients were identified using the International Classification of Diseases, ninth revision codes for heavy menstrual bleeding, AUB, and irregular menses. Exclusion criteria included pregnancy and current use of hormonal therapy. One hundred fifty patients were included.   RESULTS Among those evaluated, 61% (n혻=혻92) were prescribed hormonal medication to stop their bleeding by providers from the ED, Adolescent Medicine, or Pediatric Gynecology. ED physicians prescribed mostly single-dose and multidose taper combined oral contraceptive pills (85%; n혻=혻24), compared with Adolescent Medicine (54%, n혻=혻7), and Gynecology (28%, n혻=혻13). Pediatric gynecologists were more likely than ED physicians to treat patients with norethindrone acetate, either alone or in combination with a single dose combined oral contraceptive pill (61%, n혻=혻33 vs 7%, n혻=혻2; P혻<혻.001).   CONCLUSION Variations in treatment strategies for adolescents who present with acute AUB exist among pediatric specialties, which reflects a lack of standardized care for adolescents. Prospective evaluation of the shortest interval to cessation of bleeding, side effects, and patient satisfaction are valuable next steps.
This paper proposes a set of recommendations for the return of research results and incidental findings in paediatrics. The Network of Applied Genetic Medicine of Quebec spearheaded the initiative to develop the Statement of Principles on the Return of Research Results and Incidental Findings, which was the result of a consultation process with clinical and research experts in the field. To formulate the Statement of Principles, the authors (i) reviewed empirical and grey literature on the return of research results and incidental findings in Europe and Canada, (ii) conducted a qualitative study of stakeholder groups, (iii) developed, and (iv) validated the recommendations through consultations with the stakeholder groups. The Statement of Principles provides a useful disclosure tool for deciding when, and under what circumstances to return research results and incidental findings. It addresses the issue of return of results in genetic research generally, and has also specific principles for various research contexts, including paediatric research. It delineates ethical issues unique to paediatric research, and provides a framework to guide research ethics committees as well as the research community in addressing these issues.
Children's mental health problems are among global health advocates' highest priorities. Nearly three-quarters of adult disorders have their onset or origins during childhood, becoming progressively harder to treat over time. Integrating mental health with primary care and other more widely available health services has the potential to increase treatment access during childhood, but requires re-design of currently-available evidence-based practices to fit the context of primary care and place a greater emphasis on promoting positive mental health. While some of this re-design has yet to be accomplished, several components are currently well-defined and show promise of effectiveness and practicality.
Demographics indicate that pediatricians increasingly care for children in immigrant families in routine practice. Although these children may be at risk for health disparities relating to socioeconomic disadvantage and cultural or linguistic challenges, immigrant families have unique strengths and potential for resilience. Adaptive and acculturation processes concerning health and well-being can be mediated by cultural media. Pediatricians have a professional responsibility to address the medical, mental health, and social needs of immigrant families. Advocacy and research at the practice level and beyond can further explore the unique needs of this population and evidence-based strategies for health promotion.
Unintentional injuries are a leading cause of deaths for children of all ages. Globally, they accounted for 15.4% of 2.6 million deaths recorded among children aged 1 to 14 years in 2013. The 12 highest burden countries in the world by absolute death count and mortality are low- and middle-income countries (LMIC) except for Russia and Equatorial Guinea. These countries accounted for 58% of the 406,442 unintentional injury deaths among 1 to 14 year olds in 2013. Globalization drives inequalities in the distribution of economic gains, risks, and opportunities for preventing child unintentional injuries between high-income countries and LMIC.
This article examines the health implications of new age technology use among adolescents. As Internet prevalence has increased, researchers have found evidence of potential negative health consequences on adolescents. Internet addiction has become a serious issue. Pornography is now easily accessible to youth and studies have related pornography with several negative health effects. Cyberbullying has become a large problem as new age technologies have created a new and easy outlet for adolescents to bully one another. These technologies are related to increased morbidity and mortality, such as suicides due to cyberbullying and motor vehicle deaths due to texting while driving.
Children are vulnerable to the priorities and decision-making of adults. Usually, parents/caregivers make the difficult healthcare decisions for their children based on the recommendations from the child's healthcare providers. In global health work, healthcare team members from different countries and cultures may guide healthcare decisions by parents and children, and as a result ethical assumptions may not be shared. As a result, ethical issues in pediatric global health are numerous and complex. Here we discuss critical ethical issues in global health at an individual and organizational level in hopes this supports optimized decision-making on behalf of children worldwide.
In the adult population chronic pain can lead to loss of productivity and earning potential, and decreased quality of life. There are distinct groups with increased vulnerability for the emergence of chronic pain. These groups may be defined by developmental status and/or life circumstances. Within the pediatric, geriatric, and drug abuser populations, chronic pain represents a significant health issue. This article focuses on known anatomic, physiologic, and genetic mechanisms underlying chronic pain in these populations, and highlights the need for a multimodal approach from multiple health care professionals for management of chronic pain in those with the most risk.
STUDY OBJECTIVE To identify current clinical services and training available across Europe within pediatric and adolescent gynecology (PAG) and establish the extent to which PAG services meet current European Board and College of Obstetrics and Gynecology (EBCOG) standards.   DESIGN Quantitative and qualitative questionnaire.   SETTING European countries that are members of the EBCOG and the European Association of Pediatric and Adolescent Gynecology.   PARTICIPANTS Thirty-six countries that were approached beginning in September 2013; data were obtained from 27 countries.   INTERVENTIONS Questionnaires with 28 stems were sent to clinical leaders in 36 European countries.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES National society, national standards, legislation for female genital mutilation, protocols for transition to adult services, human papilloma virus vaccination programs, sex and contraception education, safeguarding, clinical leads for PAG, delivery of PAG services, and training available for PAG.   RESULTS Of 36 countries, 27 responded. Seventy-seven percent had a national PAG society but only 44% had national standards in PAG. There was agreement that PAG cases should be multidisciplinary but not all have clinical networks in place to facilitate this. Human papilloma virus programs are available in some European countries and not all have legislation against female genital mutilation. A significant proportion of cases continue to be seen in adult gynecology clinics as opposed to designated PAG clinics with only 41% with processes to transfer patients into adult care.   CONCLUSION In this article we provide a framework to explore areas for improvement within PAG services and training across Europe. The EBCOG standards of care are not being adhered to in many countries because processes and clinical networks are not in place to facilitate them.
ABSTRACT Type 1 diabetes is a chronic disease associated with the risk of acute and chronic complications. The patients with type 1 diabetes require constant monitoring in a diabetes outpatient clinic, regardless of their age, and the cessation of diabetes care may result in deterioration of metabolic control and earlier development of chronic complications. When the children grow up and reach 18 years of age, they must transfer from the custody of the pediatric outpatient clinic to the care of adult diabetes center. This is a very important time in the life of a young patient. When the transition is well planned, it can help young adults to live with diabetes independently. The paper presents the differences between pediatric and adult diabetes care and factors influencing diabetes control during transition process. In the article we discuss programs implemented in other countries to help young people with diabetes during transition process. Moreover the paper also demonstrates the recommendations of some scientific societies for the optimal organization of the transition to prevent a deterioration of metabolic control of diabetes.   ABBREVIATIONS DMT1- type 1 diabetes mellitus, HbA1c - glycosylated hemoglobin, PTD - Polish Diabetes Association, ADA - America Diabetes Association, SEARCH - SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth study, NICE - National Institute for Excellence.
Currently, most kidneys from small pediatric deceased donors are transplanted into adult recipients (i.e., PTA). However, due to the weight mismatch, there is a high discard rate and a high ratio of EBKTs if adopting PTA. Here, we sought both to optimize utilization of these challenging but scarce donor grafts by selecting pediatric recipients and to characterize the feasibility and efficacy of this PTP allocation strategy. From February 2012 to October 2014, kidneys from 27 infant donors  15 kg were procured and distributed to 38 pediatric candidates in our center. The grafts were utilized for EBKT if the donor weighed 2.5-5 kg and for SKT if the donor weighed 5-15 kg, leading to 10 EBKTs and 28 SKTs. The overall utilization rate from small pediatric deceased donors was 94.12%. After a follow-up of 3-26 months, the graft survival rate was 89.47%, with four graft losses due to vascular thrombosis. Kidneys from low-body-weight donors should be applied to pediatric recipients, and the kidneys from infant donors  5 kg can be used in single-kidney-transplant procedures at experienced centers to optimize utilization.
As pediatric gastrointestinal endoscopy continues to develop and evolve, pediatric gastroenterologists are more frequently called on to develop and direct a pediatric endoscopy unit. Lack of published literature and focused training in fellowship can render decision making about design, capacity, operation, equipment purchasing, and staffing challenging. To help guide management decisions, we distributed a short survey to 18 pediatric gastroenterology centers throughout the United States and Canada. This article provides practical guidance by summarizing available expert opinions on the topic of setting up a pediatric endoscopy unit.
A key aspect of pediatric gastroenterology practice is the ability to perform endoscopy procedures safely, effectively, and efficiently. Similar to adult endoscopy, performance of pediatric endoscopy requires the acquisition of related technical, cognitive, and integrative competencies to effectively diagnose and manage gastrointestinal disorders in children. However, the distinctive requirements of pediatric patients and their families and the differential spectrum of disease highlight the need for a pediatric-specific training curriculum and assessment framework to ensure endoscopic procedures are performed safely and successfully in children. This review outlines the current state of evidence as it pertains to pediatric endoscopy training and assessment.
Measuring quality in endoscopy includes the assessment of appropriateness of a procedure and the skill with which it is performed. High-quality pediatric endoscopy is safe and efficient, used effectively to make proper diagnoses, is useful for excluding other diagnoses, minimizes adverse events, and is accompanied by appropriate documentation from beginning through end of the procedure. There are no standard quality metrics for pediatric endoscopy, but proposed candidates are both process and outcomes oriented. Both are likely to be used in the near future to increase transparency about patient outcomes, as well as to influence payments for the procedure.
Informed consent and refusal for pediatric procedures involves a process in which the provider, child, and parents/guardians participate. In pediatric gastroenterology, many procedures are considered elective and the process generally begins with an office visit and ends with the signing of the consent document. If the process is emergent then this occurs more expeditiously and a formal consent may not be required. Information about the procedure should be shared in a way that allows a decision-making process to occur for both the parent/guardian and the child, if of assenting age.
This article provides an overview of the evaluation and management of lower gastrointestinal bleeding (LGIB) in children. The common etiologies at different ages are reviewed. Conditions with endoscopic importance for diagnosis or therapy include solitary rectal ulcer syndrome, polyps, vascular lesions, and colonic inflammation and ulceration. Diagnostic modalities for identifying causes of LGIB in children include endoscopy and colonoscopy, cross-sectional and nuclear medicine imaging, video capsule endoscopy, and enteroscopy. Pre-endoscopic preparation and decision-making unique to pediatrics is highlighted. The authors conclude with a summary of current and emerging therapeutic hemostatic techniques that can be used in pediatric patients.
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography is a technically challenging endoscopic technique that provides a minimally invasive way of evaluating and treating pathologic abnormality in the bile ducts and pancreas. Its utilization in children is increasing rapidly, broadening the understanding of its pediatric indications, clinical utility, and technical limitations. This article updates providers about specific considerations of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography in children as they relate to appropriate indications, patient preparation, available equipment, as well as expected technical and clinical outcomes following the procedure in pediatric populations.
The application of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in children is growing, with studies demonstrating a positive impact of EUS in the management of childhood diseases. EUS has shown to be useful in the evaluation and management of a spectrum of childhood diseases including pancreaticobiliary disease, congenital anomalies, submuocsal lesions, biliary stones disease, inflammatory bowel disease, and eosinophilic esophagitis. Its diagnostic capabilities with fine-needle aspiration and core-needle biopsy are shown to be technically successful, safe, and effective in several pediatric studies. Therapeutic EUS procedures include endoscopic cystgastrostomy, celiac plexus neurolysis, and biliary access. This article discusses the role of EUS for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes in pediatrics.
Technological advances for visualizing the small bowel have significantly grown over the past few decades. Balloon-assisted enteroscopy has come to the forefront of these innovations, and has been found to be safe and effective in children with small bowel ailments. The expanding body of research into balloon-assisted enteroscopy will continue to refine the current knowledge base of this technique, along with a growing assessment of the long-term benefits of such interventions.
Placement of gastrostomy tubes in infants and children has become increasingly commonplace. A historical emphasis on use of open gastrostomy has been replaced by less invasive methods of placement, including percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy and laparoscopically assisted gastrostomy procedures. Various complications, ranging from minor to the more severe, have been reported with all methods of placement. Many pediatric patients who undergo gastrostomy tube placement will require long-term enteral therapy. Given the prolonged time pediatric patients may remain enterally dependent, further quality improvement and education initiatives are needed to improve long-term care and outcomes of these patients.
A thorough medical history is perhaps the most important aspect when evaluating an athlete before wilderness adventure. A physical examination should follow focusing on conditions that may be affected by changes in atmospheric pressure, extremes of temperature, or altitude. This information can then be used to make safety recommendations ensuring that adventurers are able to safely enjoy participation in the wilderness pursuit of their choice.
Preparticipation evaluations (PPEs) are common in team, organized, or traditional sports but not common in wilderness sports or adventures. Regarding ethical, legal, and administrative considerations, the same principles can be used as in traditional sports. Clinicians should be trained to perform such a PPE to avoid missing essential components and to maximize the quality of the PPE. In general, participants' privacy should be observed; office-based settings may be best for professional and billing purposes, and adequate documentation of a complete evaluation, including clearance issues, should be essential components. Additional environmental and personal health issues relative to the wilderness activity should be documented, and referral for further screening should be made as deemed necessary, if unable to be performed by the primary clinician. Travel medicine principles should be incorporated, and recommendations for travel or adventure insurance should be made.
Recent outbreaks of diseases erroneously thought by many to be contained by borders or eliminated by vaccines have highlighted the need for proper training of all residents in global health. Beyond infectious diseases, all pediatricians should know how to care for other conditions in global child health, ranging from malnutrition to the nuances of care for immigrant and refugee children. The call for broader education for pediatric residents in global health has been increasing over the last decade, with all major pediatric organizations underscoring its importance in statement and action. Herein, the current status of global child health education in pediatric residency training in the United States is summarized, highlighting where it has been, where it is now, and where it should go next.
AIM The porcine model is the most widely used animal model for laparoscopic training. However, in pediatric surgery, an experimental setting with smaller animals could improve the training conditions. We compared the efficiency of a rabbit model versus the porcine model for training in pediatric minimally invasive surgery (MIS).   MATERIALS AND METHODS At the training center of Cardarelli Hospital in Naples, Italy, 10 young pediatric surgeons underwent training sessions on rabbit and porcine models under the supervision of five experienced tutors. The results of four laparoscopic techniques (inguinal hernia repair, varicocelectomy [basic procedures], nephrectomy, and fundoplication [advanced procedures]) were evaluated in regard to mean operative time, intraoperative complications, and surgical performances. Results were analyzed using Fisher's exact test and Student's t test.   RESULTS Practitioners were significantly more confident in the rabbit model compared with the pig model, especially for advanced procedures (P=.03). The overall surgical performance score (ranging from 0 [unacceptable] to 10 [excellent]) was significantly higher in the rabbit model compared with the pig model (8.1 versus 6.0; P=.01). The most significant scoring differences between the surgical performances of the trainees in the two models were reported in regard to dissection, suturing and knot-tying, tissue handling, and handling of instruments. In addition, the length of surgery for advanced procedures was statistically shorter in the rabbit model compared with the pig model (P=.01). We found that only the performances of those who started on the pig had a significantly higher improvement when transitioning to the rabbit compared with those who started on the rabbit (P=.01). Of the trainees, 90% preferred the rabbit model to the pig model.   CONCLUSIONS On the basis of our preliminary results, rabbits are preferred over pigs as the training model in pediatric MIS. In the rabbit model it is possible to perform more procedures and perform them more easily compared with the porcine model. The rabbit model provides a comfortable approach to technical training in basic and advanced laparoscopic procedures.
BACKGROUND Evidence is sparse about whether body weight categories in adolescents are associated with differences in pediatric HRQoL rated by adolescents and parents. Additionally, it is unknown whether HRQoL rated by individuals with different body mass index (BMI) weight categories is psychometrically comparable. This study aimed to assess whether difference in pediatric HRQoL rated by adolescents and their parents was explained by BMI weight status, and to test measurement properties of HRQoL items related to weight categories using differential item functioning (DIF) methodology. DIF refers to the situation when the individuals across subgroups rate an item differently (e.g., item score three by one subgroup and four by another) given the same underlying construct.   METHODS A cross-sectional study utilizing a sample of parents (n=323) and their adolescents aged 15-18혻years old (n=323) who enrolled in Florida's Medicaid. Adolescent self-reports and parent proxy-reports of the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory was adopted to measure pediatric HRQoL. We classified body weight categories as normal weight, overweight, and obesity. A Multiple Indicator Multiple Cause (MIMIC) method was used to assess DIF associated with BMI weight status, especially testing the disparity in the parameters of different weight categories (reference: lower weight category) associated with a response to a HRQoL item conditioning on the same underlying HRQoL. DIF analyses were conducted by adolescent self-reports and parent proxy-reports.   RESULTS Parents reported lower pediatric HRQoL across all domains than adolescents did. Excess body weight (combined overweight and obese) was significantly associated with a greater discrepancy in the rating of emotional and total functioning between adolescents and parents (p<0.05). DIF associated with BMI weight categories was identified by two items in adolescent self-reports and five items in parent proxy-reports.   CONCLUSIONS Adolescents' BMI weight categories significantly contribute to a difference in the rating of pediatric HRQoL by adolescents and parents.
OBJECTIVE Primary objective, to describe the management and monitorization of critically ill pediatric hemato-oncology patient (CIPHO) in the Spanish pediatric intensive care units (PICU). Secondary objective, through a literature review, to identify possible areas of improvement.   MATERIAL AND METHODS Observational transversal descriptive study. An anonymous web-based survey was sent to 324 Spanish pediatric intensivists from April 2011 to May 2011. None of them were pediatric residents.   RESULTS The survey was answered by 105 intensivists, 59/105 always agreed their treatment with the oncologist. In case of hemodynamic instability, non-invasive blood pressure monitoring is always done by 85/105 and almost always optimized by intra-arterial measuring (85/105) and central venous pressure (70/105). If respiratory failure the use of non-invasive ventilation (NIPPV) is always (36/105) or frequently (60/105) established prior to conventional mechanical ventilation. To replace or withdraw non-invasive ventilation only 44/96 of the respondents to this question use a clinical protocol. Before the instauration of conventional mechanical ventilation the oncological prognosis is considered by 72/105. In case of acute oliguric renal failure the renal replacement techniques are widely used (74/105). The withdrawal of sustaining life support is frequently discussed (75/103) and agreed with the oncologist (91/103) and caregivers (81/103).   CONCLUSIONS In our study, despite there is not a defined standard-of-care, the respondents showed similar therapeutics and monitorization choices. The use of NIPPV as first respiratory assistance is extended. Prospective, observational and multicenter studies should be developed to establish the results of this management in this population.
The American Academy of Pediatrics proposes guidance for the pediatric perioperative anesthesia environment. Essential components are identified to optimize the perioperative environment for the anesthetic care of infants and children. Such an environment promotes the safety and well-being of infants and children by reducing the risk of adverse events.
BACKGROUND Cryptorchidism is the most common genital malformation in male newborns. In recent years, guidelines concerning diagnosis and therapy have undergone considerable evolution with the implementation of recent knowledge in pathophysiology, diagnosis, and therapy.   OBJECTIVES The aim of this publication is to provide an overview of the current national and international guideline recommendations concerning diagnosis and treatment of cryptorchidism. Critical points are discussed in light of current scientific literature.   MATERIALS AND METHODS The current guidelines of the European Association of Urology (EAU)/European Society for Pediatric Urology (ESPU), the American Association of Urology (AUA), the pediatric urologic task force of the Austrian Society of Urology (횜GU), the international consultation on urological disease (ICUD) and the German Society of Urology (DGU)/German Association of Pediatric Surgery (DGKCh) have been analyzed concerning the most important aspects of treatment and diagnosis.   RESULTS There is broad consensus concerning most steps and decisions for the treatment of cryptorchidism. However, some aspects of diagnostic imaging, the use of hormonal therapy, and surgical access in nonpalpable testis warrant further discussion and are the fields of considerable changes.
OBJECT Research conducted using large administrative data sets has increased in recent decades, but reports on the fidelity and reliability of such data have been mixed. The goal of this project was to compare data from a large, administrative claims data set with a quality improvement registry in order to ascertain similarities and differences in content. METHODS Data on children younger than 12 months with nonsyndromic craniosynostosis who underwent surgery in 2012 were queried in both the Kids' Inpatient Database (KID) and the American College of Surgeons Pediatric National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (Peds NSQIP). Data from published clinical craniosynostosis surgery series are reported for comparison. RESULTS Among patients younger than 12 months of age, a total of 1765 admissions were identified in KID and 391 in Peds NSQIP in 2012. Only nonsyndromic patients were included. The mean length of stay was 3.2 days in KID and 4 days in Peds NSQIP. The rates of cardiac events (0.5% in KID, 0.3% in Peds NSQIP, and 0.4%-2.2% in the literature), stroke/intracranial bleeds (0.4% in KID, 0.5% in Peds NSQIP, and 0.3%-1.2% in the literature), infection (0.2% in KID, 0.8% in Peds NSQIP, and 0%-8% in the literature), wound disruption (0.2% in KID, 0.5% in Peds NSQIP, 0%-4% in the literature), and seizures (0.7% in KID, 0.8% in Peds NSQIP, 0%-0.8% in the literature) were low and similar between the 2 data sets. The reported rates of blood transfusion (36% in KID, 64% in Peds NSQIP, and 1.7%-100% in the literature) varied between the 2 data sets. CONCLUSIONS Both the KID and Peds NSQIP databases provide large samples of surgical patients, with more cases reported in KID. The rates of complications studied were similar between the 2 data sets, with the exception of blood transfusion events where the retrospective chart review process of Peds NSQIP captured almost double the rate reported in KID.
INTRODUCTION Considerable evidence has discussed the significant workload and advances in clinical care by UK Defence Medical Services (DMS) during recent conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Although the DMS is not doctrinally staffed to deal with children on operations, severely ill and injured paediatric casualties continue to present to military medical facilities; therefore, staff must be competent to deliver the appropriate level of care. This paper reports the paediatric presentations to the emergency department (ED), at the Role 3 Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) in Camp Bastion, Afghanistan, over a 21-month period. The aim was to provide quantitative, statistical data of paediatric presentations seen by deployed ED nurses, to identify whether the current training was appropriate and to make recommendations for further training requirements for DMS ED nurses.   METHOD All paediatric presentations to the MTF ED between January 2011 and September 2012 were analysed. The following aspects of the admission were analysed: date of admission, mechanism of injury, injury sustained, discharge, length of stay in the ED and length of stay in the R3.   RESULTS There were 159 paediatric presentations to the ED in 2011 of which 56% warranted admission to the intensive treatment unit (ITU). In contrast, over the shorter period in 2012, 79% of 73 paediatric presentations were admitted to the ITU. The most common mechanism of injury was hostile action. 13% of the patients who presented to the ED in 2011 did not survive to discharge, compared with 11% the following year.   CONCLUSION Although the exposure to paediatric polytrauma during the conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq is not replicated in peace time roles, it is likely that wherever emergency nurses are deployed the treatment of children will continue. Analysis of the service evaluation has led to the recommendations for specific skills that emergency nurses could develop during the pre-deployment phase to better prepare for caring for such patients. These include recognition of the sick child/triage, paediatric drug calculations, awareness of the massive transfusion requirements for children and skills to gain intravenous/intraosseous access in a child.
This article analyzes how the dominance of pediatric psychosomatic medicine in the Argentine medical field caused a transformation in treatments. It shows how, beginning in the 1950s, psy-experts and interdisciplinary approaches found a space at the Hospital de Ni챰os (Children's Hospital) in Buenos Aires; and how the growth of attachment theory made it possible for mothers to stay with their children in hospital. It explains the construction of certain conditions as 'family diseases' in a context of declining birthrates. It focuses on the speeches of a key figure, Florencio Escard처, not only because he was hegemonic in the scientific field but because he also played an important role dispensing advice in the media.
BACKGROUND Medical students lack confidence in recognising, assessing and managing unwell patients, particularly children. Our aim was to evaluate the impact of a 1-day novel paediatric simulation course on medical students' ability to recognise and assess sick children, and to evaluate medical students' views on the use of simulation in child health teaching.   METHODS We conducted a cluster-randomised trial with a mixed-methods design. Students were cluster randomised into the intervention (simulation) group or control group (standard paediatric attachment). Students in the intervention group attended a 1-day simulation course during the last week of their attachment. The primary outcome measure was students' self-reported ability and confidence in recognising, assessing and managing sick children.   RESULTS There were 61 students in the study: 32 in the intervention group and 29 in the control group. Self-assessed confidence in recognising, assessing and managing a sick child was higher after the simulation course, compared with controls (p혻<혻0.001). Six key themes were identified, including: increased confidence in emergency situations; the value of learning through participation in 'real-life' realistic scenarios in a safe environment; and an appreciation of the importance of human factors. Students found the simulation useful and wanted it offered to all undergraduates during child health attachments.   DISCUSSION A 1-day simulation course improves medical students' confidence in assessing and managing unwell children, and is highly valued by students. It could be used to complement undergraduate teaching on the management of sick children. Further studies are needed to evaluate its impact on real-life clinical performance and confidence over time. Students lack confidence in managing unwell patients, particularly children.
BACKGROUND To evaluate professional competences is the main goal of every training program; the Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE) is a useful tool for this task.   OBJECTIVE We describe OSCE administration across three different levels of pediatric training (postgraduate, internship and graduate medical education).   METHODS Regarding the most common pediatric scenarios, knowledge, clinical judgment and communicational skills were evaluated.   RESULTS In the postgraduate setting OSCE was used for the last 8 years, testing 330 students, and passing 60%-82% of them. In the internship setting OSCE was used for the last 2 years, testing 12 students, and passing 84% of them. In the medical school setting OSCE was used just once, testing 15 students, and passing 93.4% of them.   CONCLUSION Despite logistic issues, OSCE could be administered across three different levels of pediatric training.
OBJECTIVES In academic medical centers, resident physicians are most involved in the care of patients, yet many have little training in the proper use of interpreters in the care of patients with limited English-language proficiency. Residents have cited lack of time and lack of access to trained medical interpreters as barriers to the use of professional interpreter services. The purpose of this study was to examine the usage patterns of interpreters and perceived barriers to using interpreters in New Orleans.   METHODS Subjects included resident physicians training in internal medicine, pediatrics, and combined internal medicine and pediatrics at Tulane University and Louisiana State University in New Orleans. A survey that consisted of demographics, short-answer, and Likert-scale questions regarding attitudes related to the use of interpreters was used as the metric.   RESULTS The overall response rate was 55.5%. A total of 92.4% of subjects surveyed stated that they had used an interpreter during their residency. Telephone services and family members were the most commonly used types of interpreters (41.3% and 30.5%, respectively). Resident physicians were most likely to use interpreter services during their initial history taking as well as at discharge, but use declined throughout patients' hospitalization (P < 0.001). Residents cited lack of availability, lack of time, and lack of knowledge about accessing interpreter services as the major barriers to using interpreters.   CONCLUSIONS Resident physicians training in New Orleans have experience using interpreter services; however, they continue to use untrained interpreters and use varies during the hospital encounter. Targeted training for residents, including interpreter logistics, may help increase the use of interpreters.
PURPOSE To study common management policies of congenital nasolacrimal duct obstruction (CNDLO) among pediatric ophthalmologists.   METHODS A 21-question survey was sent to members of the American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus in April 2014. The questions focused on treatment of CNLDO during the first year of life, primary and secondary surgical interventions, surgical techniques, and amblyopia assessment.   RESULTS One hundred twenty-seven members completed the survey and 121 responses were analyzed after replies of 6 candidates in training were excluded. Eighty-two percent of respondents instructed caregivers to massage the nasolacrimal duct during the first year of life; however, 55% did not perform the Crigler massage in the office. Outpatient probing was done by 17% of pediatric ophthalmologists who took the survey, almost all of whom (95%) have been in practice more than 10 years. Ninety-one percent recommended surgery for CNLDO close to the age of 1 year and 79% performed probing as initial treatment at that age. If treatment is delayed to the age of 2 years, 53% favored silicone tube intubation and/or balloon dacryoplasty. Following failed probing, silicone tube intubation was performed by 51% of practitioners. Ninety-one percent of respondents routinely checked refraction of infants with CNLDO and recommended reexamination even if initial assessment was entirely normal.   CONCLUSIONS This study highlights the striking lack of consensus among pediatric ophthalmologists in many aspects of management of CNLDO and allows practitioners to compare their practice patterns regarding CNLDO management with those of their peers; however, because it provides only the opinions of a limited group of pediatric ophthalmologists, it does not imply that less common practices are wrong.
A sound understanding of energy needs during chronic illness is necessary to avoid imbalances in energy intake and requirements. Failure to accurately estimate energy needs results in both underfeeding and overfeeding in chronically ill children. Suboptimal energy and protein intake may lead to deterioration in body composition, particularly lean body mass loss, which eventually impacts functional outcomes in these vulnerable groups. Furthermore, infants and children with chronic illnesses have a high prevalence of malnutrition and can ill afford further nutritional deterioration from suboptimal nutrient delivery. On the other hand, unintended delivery of excessive energy in patients with chronic respiratory insufficiency results in increased respiratory burden and poor outcomes. Hence, awareness of the energy requirements and attention to energy and protein balance are important when caring for children with chronic illnesses. The basic concepts of the metabolic stress response, measurement of energy expenditure, and the impact of energy imbalance on clinical outcomes in children with chronic illness are reviewed.
BACKGROUND/AIM Paediatric surgical practice should be based upon solid scientific evidence. A study in 1998 (Baraldini et al., Pediatr Surg Int) indicated that only a quarter of paediatric operations were supported by the then gold standard of evidence based medicine (EBM) which was defined by randomized controlled trials (RCTs). The aim of the current study was to re-evaluate paediatric surgical practice 16 years after the previous study in a larger cohort of patients.   METHODS A prospective observational study was performed in a tertiary level teaching hospital for children. The study was approved by the local research ethics board. All diagnostic and therapeutic procedures requiring a general anaesthetic carried out over a 4-week period (24 Feb 2014-22 Mar 2014) under the general surgery service or involving a general paediatric surgeon were included in the study. Pubmed and EMBASE were used to search in the literature for the highest level of evidence supporting the recorded procedures. Evidence was classified according to the Oxford Centre for Evidence Based Medicine (OCEBM) 2009 system as well as according to the classification used by Baraldini et al. Results was compared using 鍋 (2) test. P < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.   RESULTS During the study period, 126 operations (36 different types) were performed on 118 patients. According to the OCEBM classification, 62 procedures (49 %) were supported by systematic reviews of multiple homogeneous RCTs (level 1a), 13 (10 %) by individual RCTs (level 1b), 5 (4 %) by systematic reviews of cohort studies (level 2a), 11 (9 %) by individual cohort studies, 1 (1 %) by systematic review of case-control studies (level 3a), 14 (11 %) by case-control studies (level 3b), 9 (7 %) by case series (type 4) and 11 procedures (9 %) were based on expert opinion or deemed self-evident interventions (type 5). High level of evidence (OCEBM level 1a or 1b or level I according to Baraldini et al. PSI 1998) supported 75 (60 %) operations in the current study compared to 18 (26 %) in the study of 1998 (P < 0.0001).   CONCLUSION The present study shows that nowadays a remarkable number of paediatric surgical procedures are supported by high level of evidence. Despite this improvement in evidence-based paediatric surgical practice, more than a third of the procedures still lack sufficient evidence-based literature support. More RCTs are warranted to support and direct paediatric surgery practice according to the principals of EBM.
AIM We explored potential barriers to adoption of recommended screening for autism by family physicians at 18- and 24-month well-child visits.   BACKGROUND The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends early detection and intervention of autism through the use of a standardized autism-specific screening tool on all children at the 18- and 24-month well-child visits. However, not all family physicians screen for autism.   METHODS Three focus groups and six semi-structured interviews were conducted with 15 family physicians in the Kansas City metropolitan area. Verbatim transcripts were inductively coded; data were analyzed using standard text analysis.   FINDINGS Participants had differing views on the increased incidence of autism. Most participants attributed the increase to changes in diagnostic criteria. There was no consensus on the benefit of implementing universal screening for autism during the 18- or 24-month visit. Many preferred to identify potential problems through general developmental assessments and observations. No participants used specific screening tools for autism, and only one participant was aware of such a tool (M-CHAT). Lack of adequate training on child development and screening methods as well as limited availability of community-based resources to manage children with autism was seen as major barriers to routine screening. Suggested solutions included working toward a stronger evidence base, improving physician training and continuing education, and making systemic changes in healthcare. In conclusion, universal screening for autism at the 18- and 24-month visits is not widely accepted, nor is it implemented by family physicians.
BACKGROUND Estimated radiation dose is important for assessing and communicating the risks and benefits of pediatric nuclear medicine studies. Radiation dose depends on the radiopharmaceutical, the administered activity, and patient factors such as age and size. Most radiation dose estimates for pediatric nuclear medicine have not been based on administered activities of radiopharmaceuticals recommended by established practice guidelines. The dosage card of the European Association of Nuclear Medicine (EANM) and the North American consensus guidelines each provide recommendations of administered activities of radiopharmaceuticals in children, but there are substantial differences between these two guidelines.   OBJECTIVE For 12 commonly performed pediatric nuclear medicine studies, two established pediatric radiopharmaceutical administration guidelines were used to calculate updated radiation dose estimates and to compare the radiation exposure resulting from the recommendations of each of the guidelines.   MATERIALS AND METHODS Estimated radiation doses were calculated for 12 common procedures in pediatric nuclear medicine using administered activities recommended by the dosage card of the EANM (version 1.5.2008) and the 2010 North American consensus guidelines for radiopharmaceutical administered activities in pediatrics. Based on standard models and nominal age-based weights, radiation dose was estimated for typical patients at ages 1, 5, 10 and 15 years and adult. The resulting effective doses were compared, with differences greater than 20% considered significant.   RESULTS Following either the EANM dosage card or the 2010 North American guidelines, the highest effective doses occur with radiopharmaceuticals labeled with fluorine-18 and iodine-123. In 24% of cases, following the North American consensus guidelines would result in a substantially higher radiation dose. The guidelines of the EANM dosage card would lead to a substantially higher radiation dose in 39% of all cases, and in 62% of cases in which patients were age 5 years or younger.   CONCLUSION For 12 commonly performed pediatric nuclear medicine studies, updated radiation dose estimates can guide efforts to reduce radiation exposure and provide current information for discussing radiation exposure and risk with referring physicians, patients and families. There can be substantial differences in radiation exposure for the same procedure, depending upon which of these two guidelines is followed. This discordance identifies opportunities for harmonization of the guidelines, which may lead to further reduction in nuclear medicine radiation doses in children.
BACKGROUND Although many efforts have been made to improve the quality of care delivered to children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in community-based pediatric settings, little is known about typical ADHD care in these settings other than rates garnered through pediatrician self-report.   METHODS Rates of evidence-based ADHD care and sources of variability (practice-level, pediatrician-level, patient-level) were determined by chart reviews of a random sample of 1594 patient charts across 188 pediatricians at 50 different practices. In addition, the associations of Medicaid-status and practice setting (ie, urban, suburban, and rural) with the quality of ADHD care were examined.   RESULTS Parent- and teacher-rating scales were used during ADHD assessment with approximately half of patients. The use of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders criteria was documented in 70.4% of patients. The vast majority (93.4%) of patients with ADHD were receiving medication and only 13.0% were receiving psychosocial treatment. Parent- and teacher-ratings were rarely collected to monitor treatment response or side effects. Further, fewer than half (47.4%) of children prescribed medication had contact with their pediatrician within the first month of prescribing. Most variability in pediatrician-delivered ADHD care was accounted for at the patient level; however, pediatricians and practices also accounted for significant variability on specific ADHD care behaviors.   CONCLUSIONS There is great need to improve the quality of ADHD care received by children in community-based pediatric settings. Improvements will likely require systematic interventions at the practice and policy levels to promote change.
BACKGROUND The US federal regulation 'Exception from Informed Consent for Emergency Research,' 21 Code of Federal Regulations 50.24, permits emergency research without informed consent under limited conditions. Additional safeguards to protect human subjects include requirements for community consultation and public disclosure prior to starting the research. Because the regulations are vague about these requirements, Institutional Review Boards determine the adequacy of these activities at a local level. Thus, there is potential for broad interpretation and practice variation.   AIM To describe the variation of community consultation and public disclosure activities approved by Institutional Review Boards, and the effectiveness of this process for a multi-center, Exception from Informed Consent, pediatric status epilepticus clinical research trial.   METHODS Community consultation and public disclosure activities were analyzed for each of the 15 participating sites. Surveys were conducted with participants enrolled in the status epilepticus trial to assess the effectiveness of public disclosure dissemination prior to study enrollment.   RESULTS Every Institutional Review Board, among the 15 participating sites, had a varied interpretation of Exception from Informed Consent regulations for community consultation and public disclosure activities. Institutional Review Boards required various combinations of focus groups, interviews, surveys, and meetings for community consultation, and news releases, mailings, and public service announcements for public disclosure. At least 4335 patients received information about the study from these efforts. In all, 158 chose to be included in the 'Opt Out' list. Of the 304 participants who were enrolled under Exception from Informed Consent, 12 (5%) had heard about the study through community consultation or public disclosure activities. The activities reaching the highest number of participants were surveys and focus groups associated with existing meetings. Public disclosure activities were more efficient and cost-effective if they were part of an in-hospital resource for patients and families.   CONCLUSION There is substantial variation in Institutional Review Boards' interpretations of the federal regulations for community consultation and public disclosure. One of the goals of community consultation and public disclosure efforts for emergency research is to provide community members an opportunity to opt out of Exception from Informed Consent research; however, rarely do patients or their legally authorized representatives report having learned about a study prior to enrollment.
OBJECTIVES AND METHODS Self-report is often represented as 'the gold standard' in assessment of pain intensity in children. We evaluate arguments for and against this claim and consider its implications for pain management.   RESULTS Those in the support of the proposition argue that, when children are able to self-report, treatment decisions should be made based on these scores in line with current evidence-based recommendations. Pain is a subjective phenomenon and can be assessed only via self-report. Treating self-report scores as the gold standard is the only valid way for health care professionals to decide on appropriate treatment.Those against the proposition contend that reliance on self-reported pain scores for analgesic treatment decisions is inappropriate as they oversimplify the pain experience, yield only marginal information on which to base treatment decisions, and potentially place children at significant risk for adverse events. Self-reports of pain intensity sometimes contradict well-founded estimates based on other evidence. Wide variation between children in the meaning of pain scores precludes easy interpretation.   DISCUSSION We conclude that self-report, when available, can be considered a primary source of evidence about pain intensity. However, it cannot be treated as an unquestioned gold standard. Instead, hierarchical or bundled approaches should be used, taking into account self-report as well as the many individual and contextual factors that influence pain including clinical history, patient preferences, and response to previous treatments. Alternate models are presented to guide further practice and research.
Inherited disorders of platelet function are a heterogeneous group. For optimal prevention and management of bleeding, classification and diagnosis of the underlying defect are highly recommended. An interdisciplinary guideline for a diagnostic approach has been published (AWMF # 086-003 S2K; H채mostaseologie 2014; 34: 201-212). Underlying platelet disorder, platelet count, age and clinical situation modify treatment. Exclusive transfusion of platelet concentrates may be inappropriate as potentially adverse effects can outweigh its benefit. A stepwise and individually adjusted approach for restitution and maintenance of haemostasis is recommended. Administration of antifibrinolytics is generally endorsed, but is of particular use in Quebec disease. Restricted to older children, desmopressin is favourable in storage pool disease and unclassified platelet disorders. Although licensed only for patients with Glanzmann thrombasthenia and alloantibodies, in clinical practice rFVIIa is widely used in inherited platelet disorders with severe bleeding tendency. This guideline aims at presenting the best available advice for the management of patients with inherited platelet function disorders.
OBJECTIVE To evaluate the impact of a training program on autism spectrum disorder (ASD) identification offered to Brazilian health professionals.   METHODS Twenty-two primary care providers participated in five 3-hour weekly training sessions.   RESULTS The trained providers significantly improved their ASD knowledge after training in comparison with pre-training (mean score, 6.73 vs. 9.18, p < 0.01). Clinical practice also changed: 4 months after the training program, the providers had referred six times as many suspected cases of ASD to a specialized mental health service in comparison with the previous 4 months.   CONCLUSION This pilot training model seems a promising, feasible, and inexpensive way to improve early identification of ASD in the primary care system.
BACKGROUND Miscommunications are a leading cause of serious medical errors. Data from multicenter studies assessing programs designed to improve handoff of information about patient care are lacking.   METHODS We conducted a prospective intervention study of a resident handoff-improvement program in nine hospitals, measuring rates of medical errors, preventable adverse events, and miscommunications, as well as resident workflow. The intervention included a mnemonic to standardize oral and written handoffs, handoff and communication training, a faculty development and observation program, and a sustainability campaign. Error rates were measured through active surveillance. Handoffs were assessed by means of evaluation of printed handoff documents and audio recordings. Workflow was assessed through time-motion observations. The primary outcome had two components: medical errors and preventable adverse events.   RESULTS In 10,740 patient admissions, the medical-error rate decreased by 23% from the preintervention period to the postintervention period (24.5 vs. 18.8 per 100 admissions, P<0.001), and the rate of preventable adverse events decreased by 30% (4.7 vs. 3.3 events per 100 admissions, P<0.001). The rate of nonpreventable adverse events did not change significantly (3.0 and 2.8 events per 100 admissions, P=0.79). Site-level analyses showed significant error reductions at six of nine sites. Across sites, significant increases were observed in the inclusion of all prespecified key elements in written documents and oral communication during handoff (nine written and five oral elements; P<0.001 for all 14 comparisons). There were no significant changes from the preintervention period to the postintervention period in the duration of oral handoffs (2.4 and 2.5 minutes per patient, respectively; P=0.55) or in resident workflow, including patient-family contact and computer time.   CONCLUSIONS Implementation of the handoff program was associated with reductions in medical errors and in preventable adverse events and with improvements in communication, without a negative effect on workflow. (Funded by the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and others.).
Today's pediatric health care lacks methods to tap into the emotional state of hospitalized pediatric patients (age 4-6 years). The most frequently used approaches were developed for adults and fail to acknowledge the importance of imaginary experiences and the notion of play that may appeal to children. The scope of this article is to introduce a new design-oriented method of gathering information about the emotional state of pediatric patients using an experimental computer game called the Child Patient game (CPgame). The CPgame was developed at a Danish hospital, and the results of the preliminary tests show that games could serve as a system in which children are willing to express their emotions through play. The results are based on two comparative analyses of the CPgame through which it is possible to identify three different types of players among the patients playing the game. Furthermore, the data reveal that pediatric patients display a radically different play pattern than children who are not in hospital. The inquiry takes an interdisciplinary approach; it has obvious health care-related objectives and seeks to meet the urgent need for new methods within health care to optimize communication with young children. At the same time, design research (i.e., the development of new knowledge through the development of a new design) heavily impacts the method.
Equipoise is a fundamental ethical principle in the conduct of interventional trials comparing two or more treatment arms. This principle dictates that, at the time of planning and executing such trials, the researchers must have no compelling evidence that one arm is superior to the other arm(s). That means that it is unethical to involve patients in a study where one intervention is convincingly better than the other, as this would mean that a group of patients will receive an inferior option, which may endanger their health. While this principle may be straightforward at the beginning of a trial, there are numerous ways how it may be subsequently disrupted. Presently, most of the literature on equipoise deals with adult patients, with very little experience in children. This paper illustrates the principle of equipoise and the process of defining it. Because the majority of pediatric medications have not been studied adequately and are not labeled for pediatric use, it is often challenging to decide whether equipoise exists for a certain pharmacological treatment. Moreover, the equipoise may dynamically change during the conduct of a study, if new evidence from other studies becomes available.
Color additives are used in pediatric syrup formulations as an excipient; though not pre-requisite, but pediatric syrup formulations are normally colored. An attempt has been made to measure simultaneously the single drug, acetaminophen (AT), along with the colors, carmoisine (CA), erythrosine (ET), and sunset yellow FCF (SSY) added in it by three derivative spectroscopy methods namely, 1st order, ratio, and differential derivative methods. Moreover, evaluation has been made for the exposure assessment of the colors added as excipient because some colors have been reported to cause allergic reactions and hypersensitivity in children. The present methods provide simple, accurate, and reproducible quantitative determination of the drug, AT, along with the color in synthetic mixtures and commercial drug formulations without any interference. The limit of detection varied from 0.0001-0.31 關g/ml while limit of quantification ranged from 0.002-1.04 關g/ml in all the three methods. The calibration curve of all the three derivative methods exhibited good linear relationship with excellent regression coefficients (0.9986-1.000). Both intra-day and inter-day precisions showed %RSD value less than 2% while the percentage recovery was found between 96.8-103.8%. The sensitivity of the proposed methods is almost comparable to HPLC and thus, can be used for determination of drug AT, and color simultaneously in pharmaceutical formulation on routine basis. The present methods also showed that colors like SSY and ET are saturating more than 50% of acceptable daily intake (ADI) value which is alarming and needs to be considered for modification by regulatory authorities to safeguard the health of children.
Trauma is the cause of over 45% of deaths in children aged 1 to 14 years. Since multiple injuries are common among children, the emergency physician has to assess all the organs of a high-energy injured child, independent of mechanism of the trauma. Even if the principles of polytrauma management are identical both in children and in adults, the optimal pediatric patient care requires a specific understanding of some important anatomical, physiological, and psychological differences that play a significant role in the assessment and management of a pediatric patient. Emergency Radiology already plays a crucial role in the diagnostic process of a polytraumatized child according to the primary survey, through the use of multiple imaging modalities. Radiological and Ultrasound examinations play a basic role in the hemodynamically unstable patients. In the hemodynamically stable patients whole-body CT scanning is the most immediate radiological procedure that allows the examination of all the body parts of a polytraumatized child, reducing the number of minor injuries that might otherwise be neglected.
OBJECTIVE To investigate caregivers' understanding of prescriptions of antibiotics and antimalarials for children in Malawi.   METHOD A cross-sectional study using interviews with 513 caregivers was undertaken in three different medical settings in two districts in Malawi for their understanding of medication defined as comprehension of dosage, frequency and duration immediately after receiving medicine, and its association with their sociodemographic characteristics.   RESULTS Nearly half (49%) of the caregivers understood medication on the day of prescription. Understanding varied by type of drug. Sixty-five percent understood medication for antimalarials, LA (lumefantrine and artemether), while only 38% understood medication for amoxicillin syrup. Multivariate analysis showed that caregivers with higher education and older children had greater understanding.   CONCLUSIONS Caregivers' understanding of pediatric medication was differentially related to kinds and types of medicine as well as their education level. The instruction to caregivers on how to administer medication should be evaluated especially when they are less educated.
The short case is a highly artificial scenario, in which the examination candidate is given little or no history and instructed to examine one system or one aspect of a patient and draw conclusions. Despite their artificiality, short cases test clinical skills which senior paediatricians value and consider essential qualities of a competent physician. This article presents some general suggestions on an approach to doing short case examinations.
OBJECTIVE To describe current practice among European paediatricians regarding diagnosis and management of urinary tract infections in children aged 1-36꿲onths and to compare these practices with recently published guidelines.   DESIGN Web-based large scale survey evaluating knowledge of, attitudes towards and the methods for diagnosing, treating and managing urinary tract infections in children.   SETTING Primary and secondary care practices in Europe.   SAMPLE 1129 paediatricians.   RESULTS A diagnosis of urinary tract infection is considered by 62% of the respondents in children aged 1-36꿲onths with unexplained fever. The preferred method of urine collection is use of a bag (53% for infants <3꿲onths and 59% for children 4-36꿲onths of age). 60% of paediatricians agree that oral and parenteral antibiotics have equal efficacy. Co-amoxiclav is the antibiotic of choice for 41% of participants, while 9% prescribe amoxicillin. 80% of respondents prescribe ultrasound in all children with a confirmed urinary tract infection. 63% of respondents prescribe a cystography when abnormalities are revealed during ultrasound evaluation. A quarter of respondents recommend antibiotic prophylaxis for all children with any vesicoureteral reflux. The data among European countries are very heterogeneous. The three most recent urinary tract infection guidelines (the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), the American Academy of Paediatrics and the Italian Society of Paediatric Nephrology) are not followed properly.   CONCLUSIONS Management of febrile urinary tract infections remains controversial and heterogeneous in Europe. Simple, short, practical and easy-to-remember guidelines and educational strategies to ensure their implementation should be developed.
OBJECTIVE To describe barriers and facilitators relevant to pediatric weight management from the perspective of at-risk overweight children and families.   METHODS Systematic thematic analysis of semistructured interviews with overweight children and families from diverse backgrounds at a large, urban academic pediatrics practice.   RESULTS Twenty-five parents and their children ages 2 to 18 years with mean body mass index percentile of 96th% (standard deviation 4.3) participated. Fifty-six percent were Black; 40% were Hispanic/Other race. Perceived barriers to successful weight management included (a) inadequate resources (financial, time, access to programming, knowledge), (b) challenging social contexts (cultural practices and expectations, interpersonal dynamics), (c) negative emotional state (lack of confidence, defeat, loneliness), and (d) denial. Participants described linkages to resources, child-parent--provider partnerships, and consistent support as key elements in successful weight management. Participants also endorsed technology use for weight management support.   CONCLUSIONS Multiple barriers and facilitators affect weight management among at-risk families, which should be considered in future obesity interventions.
Pediatric Rheumatology Association of Japan has developed evidence-based guideline of vaccination in pediatric rheumatic diseases (PRDs) as a part of Guideline of Vaccination for Pediatric Immunocompromised Hosts. Available articles on vaccination in both adult rheumatic diseases and PRDs were analyzed. Non-live vaccines are generally safe and effective in patients with PRDs on corticosteroid, immunosuppressant, and/or biologics, although efficacy may be attenuated under high dose of the drugs. On the other hand, efficacy and safety of live-attenuated vaccine for the patients on such medication have not been established. Thus, live-attenuated vaccines should be withheld and, if indicated, may be considered as a clinical trial under the approval by Institutional Review Board. All patients with PRDs anticipating treatment with immunosuppressants or biologics should be screened for infection of hepatitis B and C and tuberculosis before the commencement of medication. Varicella vaccine should be considered in sensitive patients ideally 3 weeks or longer before the commencement of immunosuppressants, corticosteroids, or biologics. Bacille Calmette-Gu챕rin should be withheld at least for 6 months after birth, if their mothers have received anti-tumor necrosis factor-慣 antibodies during the second or third trimester of pregnancy.
BACKGROUND In many health systems, specialist services for critically ill children are typically regionalised or centralised. Studies have shown that high-risk paediatric patients have improved survival when managed in specialist centres and that volume of cases is a predictor of care quality. In acute cases where distance and time impede access to specialist care, clinical advice may be provided remotely by telephone. Emergency retrieval services, attended by medical and nursing staff may be used to transport patients to specialist centres. Even with the best quality retrieval services, stabilisation of the patient and transport logistics may delay evacuation to definitive care. Several studies have examined the use of telemedicine for providing specialist consultations for critically ill children. However, no studies have yet formally examined the clinical effectiveness and economic implications of using telemedicine in the context of paediatric patient retrieval.   METHODS/DESIGN The study is a pragmatic, multicentre randomised controlled trial running over 24 months which will compare the use of telemedicine with the use of the telephone for paediatric retrieval consultations between four referring hospitals and a tertiary paediatric intensive care unit. We aim to recruit 160 children for whom a specialist retrieval consultation is required. The primary outcome measure is stabilisation time (time spent on site at the referring hospital by the retrieval team) adjusted for initial risk. Secondary outcome measures are change in patient's physiological status (repeated measure, two time points) scored using the Children's Emergency Warning Tool; change in diagnosis (repeated measure taken at three time points); change in destination of retrieved patients at the tertiary hospital (general ward or paediatric intensive care unit); retrieval decision, and length of stay in the Paediatric Intensive Care Unit for retrieved patients. The trial has been approved by the Human Research Ethics Committees of Children's Health Services Queensland and The University of Queensland, Australia.   DISCUSSION Health services are adopting telemedicine, however formal evidence to support its use in paediatric acute care is limited. Generalisable evidence is required to inform clinical use and health system policy relating to the effectiveness and economic implications of the use in telemedicine in paediatric retrieval.   TRIAL REGISTRATION Australian and New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN12612000156886 .
Liver biopsy (LB) is still the criterion standard procedure for obtaining liver tissue for histopathological examination and a valuable tool in the diagnosis, prognosis, and management of many parenchymal liver diseases. The aim of this position paper is to summarise the present practice of paediatric LB and make recommendations about its performance. Although histological evaluation of the liver is important in assessing prognosis and exploring treatment, noninvasive techniques (ie, imaging, laboratory markers) may replace use of liver histology. The indications for LB are changing as present knowledge of aetiologies, pathomechanism, and therapeutic options in paediatric liver disease is evolving. Adult and paediatric literature was reviewed to assess the existing clinical practice of LB with focus on the technique, indications, risk of complications, and contraindications in paediatrics. This position paper presents types of LB, indications, complications, contraindications, and an essential checklist for paediatric LB.
OBJECTIVE Although simulation-based education is now commonly utilized in medicine, its use in the instruction of congenital heart disease remains limited. The objective of this study is to evaluate whether heart models created with three-dimensional printing technology can be effectively incorporated into a simulation-based congenital heart disease and critical care training curriculum for pediatric resident physicians.   DESIGN Utilizing heart models created with a three-dimensional printer, pediatric residents participated in a 60-minute simulation seminar with three consecutive components: (1) didactic instruction on ventricular septal defect anatomy; (2) didactic/simulation-based instruction on echocardiographic imaging of ventricular septal defects and anatomical teaching/operative simulation of ventricular septal defect repair; (3) simulation-based instruction on postoperative critical care management of ventricular septal defects.   SETTING Academic, free-standing, children's hospital with quaternary care referrals.   PARTICIPANTS Twenty-three pediatric resident physicians.   OUTCOME MEASURES Subjective, Likert-type questionnaires assessing knowledge acquisition, knowledge reporting, and structural conceptualization of ventricular septal defects.   RESULTS Three-dimensional printing technology was successfully utilized to create heart models of five common ventricular septal defect subtypes. After using these models in a simulation-based curriculum, pediatric residents were found to have improvement in the areas of knowledge acquisition (P = .0082), knowledge reporting (P = .01), and structural conceptualization (P < .0001) of ventricular septal defects, as well as improvement in the ability to describe and manage postoperative complications in ventricular septal defect patients in the critical care setting.   CONCLUSIONS The utilization of three-dimensional printing in a simulation-based congenital heart disease and critical care training curriculum is feasible and improves pediatric resident physicians' understanding of a common congenital heart abnormality.
OBJECTIVE Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency is a major contributor to neonatal hyperbilirubinemia, yet newborn screening for this disorder in the United States is not standard practice. We surveyed pediatric providers regarding a novel newborn G6PD screening program successfully implemented in 2007 at a US urban women's hospital newborn nursery.   STUDY DESIGN An electronic survey was distributed to 472 pediatric providers addressing extent to which they were influenced by the screening program.   RESULTS Ninety-two (20%) providers responded, of whom 74 (80%) had taken care of G6PD-deficient patients diagnosed by the screening program. A majority found the diagnosis helpful for patient management and influential in their management. Most common changes in management included more counseling on jaundice and follow-up and avoidance of hemolytic crisis triggers.   CONCLUSIONS General pediatric providers support newborn G6PD screening and appreciate the current program. Knowing the G6PD deficiency status of newborns informed and influenced pediatric providers' care.
Whole slide imaging (WSI) is rapidly transforming educational and diagnostic pathology services. Recently, the College of American Pathologists Pathology and Laboratory Quality Center (CAP-PLQC) published recommended guidelines for validating diagnostic WSI. We prospectively evaluated the guidelines to determine their utility in validating pediatric surgical pathology and cytopathology specimens. Our validation included varied pediatric specimen types, including complex or less common diagnoses, in accordance with the guidelines. We completed WSI review of 60 surgical pathology cases and attempted WSI review of 21 cytopathology cases. For surgical pathology cases, WSI diagnoses were highly concordant with glass slide diagnoses; a discordant diagnosis was observed in 1 of 60 cases (98.3% concordance). We found that nucleated red blood cells and eosinophilic granular bodies represented specific challenges to WSI review of pediatric specimens. Cytology specimens were more frequently discordant or failed for technical reasons, with overall concordance of 66.7%. Review of pediatric cytopathology specimens will likely require image capture in multiple focal planes. This study is the first to specifically evaluate WSI review for pediatric specimens and demonstrates that specimens representing the spectrum of pediatric surgical pathology practice can be reviewed using WSI. Our application of the proposed CAP-PLQC guidelines to pediatric surgical pathology specimens is, to our knowledge, the first prospective implementation of the CAP-PLQC guidelines.
Although prior research has shown lower intellectual functioning across pediatric solid organ transplant recipients relative to matched siblings or norm comparisons, few studies have assessed intellectual and academic performance prior to transplant across organ groups. The current data examine intellectual and academic functioning in children being evaluated for kidney, liver, or heart transplant. This investigation included intellectual and academic testing data from 195 children and adolescents between the ages of six and 19 yr evaluated for solid organ transplantation. Across organ groups, patients' intellectual functioning as estimated by the WASI/WASI-II at the time of pretransplant evaluation was within the average range, but lower compared to test norms. Patients demonstrated lower estimates of word reading, math computation, and spelling skills compared to the normal population, with the exception of heart patients' word reading and spelling skills and liver patients' spelling scores. Cognitive and academic impairments exist in children prior to transplantation. Findings emphasize the support that patients may require to manage the complicated medical regimen and succeed academically. Routine cognitive and academic assessment can inform healthcare providers regarding transplant patients' capacity to take on increasing medical responsibility and successfully reintegrate into the school environment.
BACKGROUND Pediatric advance care planning differs from the adult setting in several aspects, including patients' diagnoses, minor age, and questionable capacity to consent. So far, research has largely neglected the professionals' perspective.   AIM We aimed to investigate the attitudes and needs of health care professionals with regard to pediatric advance care planning.   DESIGN This is a qualitative interview study with experts in pediatric end-of-life care. A qualitative content analysis was performed.   SETTING/PARTICIPANTS We conducted 17 semi-structured interviews with health care professionals caring for severely ill children/adolescents, from different professions, care settings, and institutions.   RESULTS Perceived problems with pediatric advance care planning relate to professionals' discomfort and uncertainty regarding end-of-life decisions and advance directives. Conflicts may arise between physicians and non-medical care providers because both avoid taking responsibility for treatment limitations according to a minor's advance directive. Nevertheless, pediatric advance care planning is perceived as helpful by providing an action plan for everyone and ensuring that patient/parent wishes are respected. Important requirements for pediatric advance care planning were identified as follows: repeated discussions and shared decision-making with the family, a qualified facilitator who ensures continuity throughout the whole process, multi-professional conferences, as well as professional education on advance care planning.   CONCLUSION Despite a perceived need for pediatric advance care planning, several barriers to its implementation were identified. The results remain to be verified in a larger cohort of health care professionals. Future research should focus on developing and testing strategies for overcoming the existing barriers.
BACKGROUND The aims of this study were to describe guardian perceptions of the experiences of a sample of youth with sickle cell disease (SCD) in rural emergency departments (EDs) with a focus on overall patient satisfaction and characteristics of care.   PROCEDURE Guardians of 139 children with SCD (0 to 17 y) seen at a rural pediatric SCD clinic completed a survey concerning their children's ED experiences in the past 6 months, including information about ED wait times, quality of communications and interactions with the ED health care providers, pain management, perceptions of speed of care, and overall satisfaction.   RESULTS About 41% of guardians reported that their child visited the ED in the past 6 months. Guardians reported moderate satisfaction with ED care. About 25% of those who visited the ED indicated that health care providers did not spend enough time with them and their children did not receive speedy care. Shorter ED wait times and higher ratings of speed of care predicted higher satisfaction.   CONCLUSIONS Families of youth with SCD are experiencing longer wait times in rural EDs which contribute to dissatisfaction with care. Efforts are needed to develop strategies to reduce ED wait times and improve speed of care which may improve outcomes following ED care.
BACKGROUND We introduced video-based teaching in pediatrics. We evaluated the impact of a pediatric video program on student performance in assessing pediatric patients presented as video cases. The program consisted of a library of pediatric videos, and inclusion of these in the teaching and examination for pediatric medicine.   METHODS Medical students on a pediatric clerkship at the University of Copenhagen assessed eight short pediatric video cases during autumn 2011 and spring 2012. Two independent observers evaluated a subset of records in a pilot study. A blind evaluation was made of the written records of 37 students before, and 58 students after, the introduction of the program using a Rubric score with four domains.   RESULTS The intraobserver interclass correlation coefficient was 0.94 and the interobserver interclass correlation was 0.71(n=25). The students' mean total Rubric score in spring 2012 (7.0) was significantly higher (p<0.001, 95% CI 1.34-3.20) than autumn 2011 (4.7). Cohen's d was 1.1 (95% CI 0.6-1.7). Single domains scores increased significantly for general assessment (1.30 versus 0.57) (p<0.002, 95% CI 0.45-1.18), recognition of principal symptoms (1.38 versus 0.81) (p<0.008, 95% CI 0.22-0.91), appropriate diagnosis (2.28 versus 1.78) (p<0.002, 95% CI 0.16-0.82) and consistency between observed symptoms and diagnosis (1.94 versus 1.57) (p=0.0482, 95% CI 0.00-0.79).   CONCLUSIONS Students improved in evaluating pediatric patients presented as video cases after the introduction of the program. The impact on real-life situations remains to be established.
OBJECTIVE The aim of this study was to examine the effects of a newly established neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) on clinical work practice and educational activity at Nippon Medical School Musashikosugi Hospital.   METHODS This retrospective study analyzed the clinical records of all neonates admitted to the NICU from December 2010 through November 2013. Anthropometric data, clinical status, problems, and outcomes of patients and the related obstetrical history were extracted and analyzed.   RESULTS Of the 568 neonatal admissions, about half were related to preterm birth (49%) and low birth weight (55%). Forty-eight percent of patients were born via caesarean delivery. Maternal hypertension, diabetes, and thyroid disease were found in 8%, 5%, and 2% of cases, respectively. Mechanical ventilatory support was provided for 20% of patients. Neonates from multiple pregnancy and with significant congenital anomalies accounted for 17% and 10% of all patients, respectively. Five patients died during hospitalization. In addition training was provided in the NICU for an average of 10 residents and 20 medical students per year.   CONCLUSION Since the NICU was established, closer cooperation beyond the framework of a single department has come to be needed. In addition, NICUs in teaching hospitals are expected to provide opportunities for medical students and residents to observe and participate in multidisciplinary medical care.
BACKGROUND Closed reduction and percutaneous pin fixation is the standard of care for displaced supracondylar fractures of humerus in children. Although it is routinely performed in supine position, some authors recommend prone position to be advantageous as it aids in gravity reduction and avoids elbow hyperflexion. This study was conducted to compare the ease of manipulation and pinning, clinical, and radiologic outcomes in supine versus prone position.   METHODS Fifty-two children with acute, grade III supracondylar humerus fractures without vascular injury were included in the study. They were grouped into prone (n=26) and supine (n=26) based on computer-generated block randomization. The duration of procedure, number of radiation exposures, attempts at closed reduction, and attempts at placing the pins were analyzed. Functional and radiologic outcomes were assessed for a minimum follow-up of 1 year.   RESULTS There was no significant difference between the 2 groups in the duration of procedure (P=0.422), number of radiation exposure (P=0.470), attempts at closed reduction (P=0.904), and attempts for pinning (P=0.745) and the final clinical and radiologic outcomes. One patient in prone group had cubitus varus of 8 degrees. Functionally, 2 in the supine group and 3 in prone group had poor outcomes.   CONCLUSIONS There is no significant difference in the ease of reduction and pinning between supine and prone positions. Grossly displaced fractures with skin puckering are difficult to manipulate in prone position. Supine position is ideal for closed reduction and pinning of all patterns of type III supracondylar fractures.
BACKGROUND Emergency medicine and pediatric physicians often provide initial pediatric fracture care. Therefore, basic knowledge of the various treatment options is essential. The purpose of this study was to determine the accuracy of information commonly available to these physicians in textbooks and online regarding the management of pediatric supracondylar humerus and femoral shaft fractures.   METHODS The American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons Clinical Practice Guidelines for pediatric supracondylar humerus and femoral shaft fractures were used to assess the content of top selling emergency medicine and pediatric textbooks as well as the top returned Web sites after a Google search. Only guidelines that addressed initial patient management were included. Information provided in the texts was graded as consistent, inconsistent, or omitted.   RESULTS Five emergency medicine textbooks, 4 pediatric textbooks, and 5 Web sites were assessed. Overall, these resources contained a mean 31.6% (SD=32.5) complete and correct information, whereas 3.6 % of the information was incorrect or inconsistent, and 64.8% was omitted. Emergency medicine textbooks had a mean of 34.3% (SD=28.3) correct and complete recommendations, 5.7% incorrect or incomplete recommendations, and 60% omissions. Pediatric textbooks were poor in addressing any of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons guidelines with an overall mean of 7.14% (SD=18.9) complete and correct recommendations, a single incorrect/incomplete recommendation, and 91.1% omissions. Online resources had a mean of 48.6% (SD=33.1) complete and correct recommendations, 5.72% incomplete or incorrect recommendations, and 45.7% omissions.   CONCLUSIONS This study highlights important deficiencies in resources available to pediatric and emergency medicine physicians seeking information on pediatric fracture management. Information in emergency medicine and pediatric textbooks as well as online is variable, with both inaccuracies and omissions being common. This lack of high-quality information could compromise patient care. Resources should be committed to ensuring accurate and complete information is readily available to all physicians providing pediatric fracture care. In addition, orthopaedic surgeons should take an active role to ensure that nonorthopaedic textbooks and online resources contain complete and accurate information.
BACKGROUND Patient satisfaction survey scores are increasingly being tied to incentive compensation, impact how we practice medicine, influence decisions on where patients seek care, and in the future may be required for accreditation. The goal of this study is to compare the results of an internal distribution of patient satisfaction surveys at the point of care to responses received by mail in a hospital-based, high-volume pediatric orthopaedic practice.   METHODS A pediatric outpatient survey is used at our institution to evaluate patient satisfaction. Surveys are randomly mailed out to families seen in our clinic by the survey vendor, and the results are determined on a quarterly basis. We distributed the same survey in a similar manner in our clinic. The results of the surveys, external/mailed (EXM) versus internal/point of care (INP) over the same 3-month time period (second quarter 2013) were compared. The survey questions are dichotomized from an ordinal scale into either excellent (9 to 10) or not excellent (0 to 8) commonly used in patient satisfaction methodology. We evaluated the raw data from the INP surveys for the question on provider rating by evaluating the mean score, the standard excellent response (9 to 10), and an expanded excellent response (8 to 10).   RESULTS Response rate was 72/469 (15.4%) for EXM, and 231/333 (69.4%) for INP. An excellent response for the 'rating your provider' question was 72.2% (EXM) versus 84.8% (INP) (P=0.015). Our analysis of the raw data (INP) has a mean rating of 9.42. The expanded scale (8 to 10) for an excellent response increased the provider rating to 94.4% (P=0.001). Waiting time response within 15 minutes was the only item that correlated with rating of provider (P=0.02). For the majority of the items, the INP responses were consistently higher than the EXM responses, including 6/7 responses that were statistically significant (P<0.05).   CONCLUSIONS As mandated by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, patient satisfaction surveys will be important in determining health care outcomes. Properly designed and administered surveys provide robust measures of quality. Our study reinforces methodological concerns about patient satisfaction surveys distributed in a high-volume pediatric subspecialty practice. Further research is needed to evaluate the patients' health care experience and true quality of care in pediatric subspecialty ambulatory settings.
The packaging presentation of oral liquid pediatric medicines is a critical step in maintaining chemical and physical stability, compliance, adherence, and proper handling by the target patient population, guardians, caregivers, and health-care professionals. The common packaging presentations for commercial oral liquid pediatric drug products are glass bottle, plastic bottle, sachet, and stick pack configurations. The type of pack presentation selected is driven by the quality target product profile (QTPP) that is designed around the physicochemical properties of the drug substance and the desired drug product suitability for the target population. The QTPP defines the intended use of the drug product, drug product quality criteria, dose strength, dosage form, container closure system, storage conditions, stability criteria, dosing device, shelf life, and attributes affecting the pharmacokinetic characteristics. Oral liquid pediatric formulations are typically prepared from a powder that is constituted at the time of use as a suspension or a solution for single or multiple use depending on the stability of the constituted formulation. Active ingredients with high aqueous solubility can be developed as a powder for oral solution and presented in a bottle for multiple use product and a stick pack, packet, or sachet for single-use product. Active ingredients with low aqueous solubility can be developed as a powder for oral suspension and presented in a bottle for multiple use product and a stick pack or sachet for single-use product. A secondary package may be used in cases where the primary pack failed to provide adequate protection against light degradation. This work will help formulation scientists select the most appropriate pack presentation in the early stages of pediatric clinical development.
Open reduction is often necessary for the treatment of supracondylar humeral fractures in children in which rotational malalignment cannot be corrected by closed means. We introduce a new closed reduction technique for the correction of this deformity using a Kirschner wire as a joystick.
PURPOSE Quality of life (QoL) has been increasingly emphasized in National Cancer Institute (NCI)-sponsored multisite clinical trials. Little is known about the outcomes of these trials in pediatric cancer. Objectives were to describe the proportion of Children's Oncology Group (COG) QoL studies that successfully accrued subjects and were analyzed, presented or published.   METHODS We conducted a survey to describe outcomes of COG QoL studies. We included studies that contained at least one QoL assessment and were closed to patient accrual at the time of survey dissemination. Respondents were the investigators most responsible for the QoL aim.   RESULTS Sixteen studies were included; response rate was 100%. Nine (56%) studies were embedded into a cancer treatment trial. Only 3 (19%) studies accrued their intended sample size. Seven (44%) studies were analyzed, 9 (56%) were presented, and 6 (38%) were published.   CONCLUSIONS NCI-sponsored pediatric QoL studies have high rates of failure to accrue. Many were not analyzed or disseminated. Using these data, strategies have been implemented to improve conduct in future trials. Monitoring of QoL studies is important to maximize the chances of study success.
OBJECTIVES The Brazilian scientific production in the pediatrics field has been increasing significantly. It is important to identify the distribution and activity of these groups in the country and the main study areas, contributing with data for better resource allocation by institutions.   METHODS An active research was conducted in the National Council of Technological and Scientific Development (Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cient챠fico e Tecnol처gico [CNPq]) website, using as filters the macro area of the research group (Health Sciences), the area (Medicine), and descriptors related to pediatrics. Research lines and main area of pediatric research groups were classified according to the subject predominantly studied by each group. The scientific production of the leader of the pediatric research group between 2011 and 2014 was also analyzed.   RESULTS Most pediatric research groups in Brazil have more than five years of activity and are concentrated in the Southeast and South regions of the country; S찾o Paulo, Rio Grande do Sul, and Minas Gerais are the states with most groups. Of the 132 specific pediatric research groups analyzed, 14.4% have lines of research in multiple areas and 11.4% in child and adolescent health. Among the 585 lines of research of these groups, the most prevalent areas were: oncology, infectious diseases, epidemiology, and gastroenterology.   CONCLUSIONS The pediatric research groups in Brazil have relevant scientific production, including works published in international publications, and are concentrated in regions with higher socioeconomic index. Most groups registered in CNPq started their activity in the last five years (46%), reflecting the recent growth of scientific production in this area.
The field of child and adolescent psychiatry has always lagged behind adult psychiatry. With recent evidence that the vast majority of mental disorders, even when they emerge in adulthood, cause abnormal neurodevelopment and resultant emphasis on prevention and early intervention, there is a need to put child psychiatry at the top of the agenda in mental health research. This should also be the case for developmental neuropsychopharmacology. The target of drug discovery should shift toward a population younger than the one that is typically included in clinical trials. This is not only a matter of trying to replicate what has been found in individuals with mature brains; it is about searching for new strategies that address developing brains while the therapeutic window for their effect is still open. At present, major concerns in developmental psychopharmacology are over-prescription rates and use of psychotropic medications for conditions with a particularly underdeveloped evidence base, as well as adverse effects, especially potentially life-shortening cardiometabolic effects and suicidal ideation. The future of research in this area should focus on the use of drugs for primary and secondary prevention that would modify abnormal brain development.
The National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute Expert Panel Integrated Guidelines promote the prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD) events by encouraging healthy behaviors in all children, screening and treatment of children with genetic dyslipidemias, usage of specific lifestyle modifications, and limited administration of lipid pharmacotherapy in children with the highest CVD risk. These recommendations place children in the center of the fight against future CVD. Pediatric providers may be in a position to shift the focus of CVD prevention from trimming multiple risk factors to cutting out the causes CVD.
The involvement of children in non-beneficial clinical research is extremely important for improving pediatric care, but its ethical acceptability is still disputed. Therefore, various pro-research justifications have been proposed throughout the years. The present essay aims at contributing to the on-going discussion surrounding children's participation in non-beneficial clinical research. Building on Wendler's 'contribution to a valuable project' justification, but going beyond a risk/benefit analysis, it articulates a pro-research argument which appeals to a phenomenological view on the body and vulnerability. It is claimed that children's bodies are not mere physical objects, but body-subjects due to which children, as persons, can contribute to research that may hold no direct clinical benefit to them even before they can give informed consent.
Sleep coaches are an emerging group of pediatric providers whose scope of services and regional distribution have not been well characterized. This descriptive analysis used Internet data to identify sleep coaches and certification programs in the US; we found a sizeable diversity of backgrounds, training, services offered, and pricing.
Seven years after the launch of the European Paediatric Medicine Regulation, limited progress in paediatric oncology drug development remains a major concern amongst stakeholders - academics, industry, regulatory authorities, parents, patients and caregivers. Restricted increases in early phase paediatric oncology trials, legal requirements and regulatory pressure to propose early Paediatric Investigation Plans (PIPs), missed opportunities to explore new drugs potentially relevant for paediatric malignancies, lack of innovative trial designs and no new incentives to develop drugs against specific paediatric targets are some unmet needs. Better access to new anti-cancer drugs for paediatric clinical studies and improved collaboration between stakeholders are essential. The Cancer Drug Development Forum (CDDF), previously Biotherapy Development Association (BDA), with Innovative Therapy for Children with Cancer Consortium (ITCC), European Society for Paediatric Oncology (SIOPE) and European Network for Cancer Research in Children and Adolescents (ENCCA) has created a unique Paediatric Oncology Platform, involving multiple stakeholders and the European Union (EU) Commission, with an urgent remit to improve paediatric oncology drug development. The Paediatric Oncology Platform proposes to recommend immediate changes in the implementation of the Regulation and set the framework for its 2017 revision; initiatives to incentivise drug development against specific paediatric oncology targets, and repositioning of drugs not developed in adults. Underpinning these changes is a strategy for mechanism of action and biology driven selection and prioritisation of potential paediatric indications rather than the current process based on adult cancer indications. Pre-competitive research and drug prioritisation, early portfolio evaluation, cross-industry cooperation and multi-compound/sponsor trials are being explored, from which guidance for innovative trial designs will be provided.
Advancements in the care of children with cancer have, in part, been achieved through improvements in supportive care. Situations that require prompt care can occur at the time of presentation as well as during treatment. This article discusses the approach to children with fever and neutropenia, a complication encountered daily by care providers, as well as oncologic emergencies that can be seen at the time of a child's initial diagnosis: hyperleukocytosis, tumor lysis syndrome, superior vena cava syndrome, and spinal cord compression.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a molecularly heterogeneous disease and age-associated molecular alterations result in younger children harboring a distinct signature from older children and adolescents. Pediatric AML has a genetic and epigenetic profile with significant differences compared to adult AML. Somatic and epigenetic alterations contribute to myeloid leukemogenesis and can evolve from diagnosis to relapse. Cytogenetic alterations, somatic mutations and response to induction therapy are important in informing risk stratification and appropriate therapy allocation. Next-generation sequencing technologies are providing novel insights into the biology of AML and have the ability to identify potential targets for therapeutic intervention.
BACKGROUND Many European citizens regularly consult homeopathic doctors. Especially for children there is very little data available about the reasons they visit a homeopathic doctor. What are the expectations of the parents consulting a Homeopath MD with their child, who are they and last but not least are they satisfied with their initiative? This study including 773 children from six European countries and Brazil is aimed to look at parent-proxy satisfaction with homeopathic treatment prescribed for their children by a homeopathic doctor after a follow-up of two months. The questionnaire was developed from the methodology used in a survey of adults published in 2002.   METHOD An initial questionnaire included demographic information and questions for assessing health-related Quality of Life (QoL). A follow-up questionnaire collected data on changes in QoL.   RESULTS The demographic characteristics of respondents showed more male children (53.1%) but more female parent-proxies (93.4%). 73.7% of respondents had previously tried conventional treatments; 26.3% non-conventional approaches. Satisfaction with the medical homeopathic consultation was high. Reported differences between baseline and final QoL ondexes are positive for all four studied conditions. It range from 3.206 to 10.188. Considering 7% as a reference value for 'minimal clinical difference', this is reached for 2 on 4 conditions (8.473 and 10.188). Changes in complaint limitations visual scales are positive, even if uncertain for skin complaints and influenced parents satisfaction. Conclusions on clinical impact must be cautious. 4.2% of patients experienced side-effects which they attribute to homeopathic treatment. 10.1% of patients reported significant aggravation at the beginning of homeopathic treatment, 19% slight aggravation of symptoms.   CONCLUSIONS The satisfaction of parents using a medical homeopathic approach for their children is linked to the perceived competence of the doctor homeopath, the perceived improvement of the main complaint limitations and the completeness of the received information.
BACKGROUND Graduate medical education is transitioning to the use of entrustable professional activities to contextualize educational competencies. Factors influencing entrustment decisions have been reported in adult medicine. Knowing how such decisions are made in pediatrics is critical to this transition.   PURPOSE To understand how supervisors determine the level of procedural supervision to provide a resident, taking into consideration simulation performance; to understand factors that affect supervisors' transparency to parents about residents' procedural experience.   METHODS We conducted 18 one-on-one interviews with supervisors in a tertiary care pediatric emergency department, iteratively revising interview questions as patterns in the data were elucidated. Two researchers independently coded transcripts and then met with the investigative team to refine codes and create themes.   RESULTS Five factors influenced supervisors' entrustment decisions: 1) resident characteristics that include self-reported confidence, seniority, and prior interactions with the resident; 2) supervisor style; 3) nature of the procedure/characteristics of the patient; 4) environmental factors; and 5) parental preferences. Supervisors thought that task-based simulators provided practice opportunities but that simulated performance did not provide evidence for entrustment. Supervisors reported selectively omitting details about a resident's experience level to families to optimize experiential learning for residents they entrusted to perform a procedure.   CONCLUSIONS In pediatrics, supervisors consider various factors when making decisions regarding resident procedural readiness, including parental preferences. An educational system using entrustable professional activities may facilitate holistic assessment and foster expertise-informed decisions about residents' progression toward entrustment; such a system may also lessen supervisors' need to omit information to parents about residents' procedural readiness.
OBJECTIVE To determine what changes occurred in pediatric residency programs with regards to handover education and assessment before and after the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) requirement mandating monitoring safe handover practices in July혻2011.   METHODS We sent surveys at 2 time periods to all pediatric program directors in the United States, as identified from a list provided by the Association of Pediatric Program Directors. Respondents were asked about their program demographics, whether they had handover curricula, how trainees were taught to perform handovers, and perceived barriers to effective handover.   RESULTS Response rates were 58% in both survey years. After the ACGME requirement, only 1 of 3 of programs reported a handover curriculum with goals, objectives, and assessment tools. There was a statistically significant increase in the percentage of those responding that resident handover education primarily occurred by role modeling (66% vs 82%; P < .05). Other learners (visiting residents, medical students) also continued to learn handover skills by role modeling (55% vs 56%; P = NS). Lack of feedback and interruptions were recognized as barriers to successful handover by program directors in both survey years.   CONCLUSIONS There is a continued need for handover curricula with didactic and practical components as well as assessment pieces within pediatric residency programs. Barriers to effective handover such as lack of feedback and interruptions continue to be major problems. There is a lack of faculty ownership and interest in learner handover that may affect long-term successes. Because role modeling continues to be the main way in which trainees learn handover, specific attention should be given to teach role-modeling techniques.
BACKGROUND Professional guidelines and state Medicaid policies encourage pediatricians to provide oral health screening, anticipatory guidance, and fluoride varnish application to young patients. Because oral health activities are becoming more common in medical offices, the objective of this study was to assess pediatricians' attitudes and practices related to oral health and examine changes since 2008.   METHODS As part of the 2012 Periodic Survey of Fellows, a random sample of 1638 members of the American Academy of Pediatrics was surveyed on their participation in oral health promotion activities. Univariate statistics were used to examine pediatricians' attitudes, practices, and barriers related to screening, risk assessment, counseling, and topical fluoride application among patients from birth to 3 years of age. Bivariate statistics were used to examine changes since 2008.   RESULTS Analyses were limited to 402 pediatricians who provided preventive care (51% of all respondents). Most respondents supported providing oral health activities in medical offices, but fewer reported engaging in these activities with most patients. Significantly more respondents agreed they should apply fluoride varnish (2008, 19%; 2012, 41%), but only 7% report doing so with >75% of patients. Although significantly more respondents reported receiving oral health training, limited time, lack of training and billing remain barriers to delivering these services.   CONCLUSIONS Pediatricians continue to have widespread support for, but less direct involvement with oral health activities in clinical practice. Existing methods of training should be examined to identify methods effective at increasing pediatricians' participation in oral health activities.
Endoscopic endonasal skull base surgical techniques, initially developed in adult patients, are being utilized with increasing frequency in pediatric patients to treat sinonasal and skull base lesions. This article reviews the current state of endoscopic endonasal approaches to the skull base to both treat disease and reconstruct the skull base in pediatric patients. Sinonasal and skull base embryology and anatomy are reviewed as a foundation for understanding the disease processes and surgical techniques. Selected skull base pathologies and conditions that involve the pediatric skull base are also reviewed.
Teratomas and dermoid cysts are germ cell neoplasms. This article focuses on cervical and craniofacial teratomas. Presentation of these neoplasms varies in degree of severity, from cosmetic deformities to airway distress requiring emergent intervention. Nasal lesions (particularly if suspicious for a nasal dermoid) require imaging before biopsy to assess for intracranial extension. Treatment consists of airway management if respiratory distress is present, and early surgical intervention. Postoperative follow-up is required to monitor for recurrence.
The differential diagnosis in pediatric lymphadenopathy includes bacterial, viral, fungal, and idiopathic causes. A systematic approach to patient evaluation is necessary because the differential diagnosis, presentation, and work up must consider infectious, immunologic, neoplastic, and idiopathic disorders. A thorough history and examination are vital to determining the diagnosis and ruling out a malignant process.
This article explores pediatric lingual and other intraoral lesions. First the embryology and anatomy of the oral anatomy is outlined. Then the article discusses infections and inflammatory diseases, congenital malformations, benign neoplasms, and malignant tumors.
Medical imaging is an important tool in the evaluation and classification of pediatric head and neck masses. Such lesions may include congenital, inflammatory, infectious, vascular, or neoplastic processes. Ultrasound is often the first line modality in the workup of a neck mass in a child, followed by MRI or CT depending on the scenario. This information must be interpreted in the context of the patient's clinical history, physical examination, and demographics. The medical imaging workup of a neck mass in a child must be focused to yield the maximum information possible while minimizing the risks of radiation and sedation.
Levosimendan is a calcium-sensitizing agent that improves cardiac function, hemodynamic performance, and survival in critically ill adult patient. Few data exist on its off-label use in paediatric patients. We therefore performed a systematic review updated in September 2013 of all the published articles describing the use of levosimendan in paediatric patients. We identified 24 studies published in the period 2004-2013 that included a total of 623 patients, the largest one being a case series of 293 patients. Most of the patients underwent cardiac surgery, other settings consisting of chronic heart failure, primary congenital heart diseases and sepsis and cancer-associated cardiac dysfunction. Most studies reported improvement in ventricular function, central venous oxygen saturation, serum lactate levels or cardiac index. The 5 randomized studies published so far have all been performed in cardiac surgery and suggest a beneficial effect on hemodynamic data with no effect on intensive care unit stay, hospital stay or survival. Side effects (e.g. hypotension) were reported. This inodilator merits to be investigated with further randomized trials focusing on clinically relevant outcomes.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES Recognizing the risk of fire during laser procedures involving the airway, the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) developed recommendations designed to promote safe practice and reduce burn injuries. The aim of this study was to identify how reported anesthetic management of airway laser endoscopies in pediatric patients aligns with the ASA Practice Advisory (ASA-PA).   METHODS An online survey was created in an iterative process, pilot-tested, and distributed using the Society for Pediatric Anesthesia's (SPA) membership email list. Responses were analyzed using descriptive statistics.   RESULTS Responses from 322 respondents were included, 296 (92%) of whom participated in pediatric laser airway procedures. Fifty-nine respondents (20%) reported the use of an inspired fraction of oxygen (FiO2) of 90% or greater during laser activation in patients with a native airway, and 101 (34%) reported not waiting after the reduction of the FiO2 and laser activation in the airway. Sixty-four (36%) of respondents reporting the use of a non-laser-safe tube during laser airway cases did so due to a lack of availability of a laser specific tube or size limitations. Six respondents (2%) reported an airway fire during a laser procedure in a child under their care.   CONCLUSIONS Our results indicate that, in general, pediatric anesthesiologists do not adhere to the ASA-PA in several important aspects. Possible explanations might be knowledge deficiencies about the Practice Advisory or a perceived limited clinical applicability in the pediatric setting. Regardless, airway fires during laser airway surgeries in this population do occur, emphasizing the need for safe practice standards for both anesthesiologists and surgeons.
OBJECTIVE To describe the developmental-behavioral pediatricians (DBPs), patients, and clinical practices used in the diagnostic assessments of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) within all 12 academic medical centers comprising Developmental-Behavioral Pediatrics Research Network (DBPNet).   METHODS Between December 2011 and June 2012, all DBPs who evaluated children with ADHD or autism spectrum disorders were asked to complete a diagnostic encounter survey form for up to 10 consecutive new cases that resulted in the diagnosis of ADHD or autism spectrum disorder. Fifty-two clinicians returned one or more forms for children diagnosed with ADHD (n = 211).   RESULTS DBPs were generally experienced full-time academics. Children were 76.3% male, 62.3% white, 24.5% African American, and 20.7% Hispanic. Mean child age was 8.0 + 3.1 years. DBPs reviewed parent ratings of behavior in 84.4% and teacher ratings in 69.2% of cases. They reviewed or completed at least one developmental assessment in 79.2% of cases: intelligence (60.2%), academic (57.8%), fine motor or visual motor (39.3%), speech/language (34.6%), or adaptive skills (28.9%). They made the diagnosis of coexisting conditions in 82.7% of cases, including learning disabilities (31.8%), speech/language disorders (31.8%), anxiety (14.2%), externalizing disorders (10.9%), and sleep disorders (9.5%). Among 146 children not medicated before the visit, stimulant medications were initiated in 15 children (10.2%).   CONCLUSIONS Within DBPNet, DBPs were highly likely to complete comprehensive assessments of ADHD that went beyond the requirements of primary care practice guidelines. They typically identified coexisting developmental and learning conditions. They did not typically prescribe medication at the end of diagnostic encounters.
OBJECTIVE To describe the characteristics of children with nonspecific abdominal pain (AP) in primary care, their evaluation, and their outcomes.   METHODS Between 2007 and 2009, a retrospective cohort of children from 5 primary care practices was followed from an index visit with AP until a well-child visit 6 to 24 months later (outcome visit). Using International Classification of Disease, 9th Revision (ICD-9), codes and chart review, we identified afebrile children between 4 and 12 years old with AP. Use of diagnostic testing was assessed. Multivariable logistic regression was used to model the association of index visit clinical and demographic variables with persistent pain at the outcome visit, and receipt of a specific diagnosis.   RESULTS Three hundred seventy-five children presented with AP, representing 1% of the total population of 4- to 12-year-olds during the study period. Eighteen percent of children had persistent pain, and 70% of the study cohort never received a specific diagnosis for their pain. Seventeen percent and 14% of children had laboratory and radiology testing at the index visit, respectively. Only 3% of laboratory evaluations helped to yield a diagnosis. Among variables considered, only preceding pain of more than 7 days at the index visit was associated with persistent pain (odds ratio 2.15, 95% confidence interval 1.19-3.89). None of the variables considered was associated with receiving a specific diagnosis.   CONCLUSIONS Most children with AP do not receive a diagnosis, many have persistent pain, and very few receive a functional AP diagnosis. Results support limited use of diagnostic testing and conservative management consistent with national policy statements.
Pediatric maxillary and mandibular tumors offer considerable challenges to otolaryngologists, oral surgeons, pathologists, and radiologists alike. Because of the close proximity to vital structures, appropriate steps toward a definitive diagnosis and treatment plan are of paramount importance. This article reviews the most common causes of pediatric jaw masses and discusses diagnostic and therapeutic considerations and recommendations.
BACKGROUND In 1971, we published a survey regarding pediatricians' attitudes toward the field of allergy/immunology (A/I). Results indicated general attitudes and practices fell short of what most allergist-immunologists would hope. We revisited this in 1998 to determine how pediatricians' attitudes toward A/I had changed nearly 3 decades later. Despite some advances, results from 1998 revealed that A/I remained a misunderstood specialty. With the increasing incidence of atopic disorders and improving awareness of primary immunodeficiency, it is more important today than ever before that pediatricians and general practitioners have a strong appreciation for the scope of disorders the subspecialty of A/I encompasses.   OBJECTIVE To reevaluate attitudes and practices of pediatricians toward A/I 40 years after the initial study and 13 years after this topic was last addressed.   METHODS A 25-question survey was mailed to 293 pediatricians in the St Louis area. Surveys were completed confidentially. Pearson correlation and (2) analyses were performed.   RESULTS Of 293 pediatricians polled, 135 (46%) responded. Referrals to allergist-immunologists for urticaria have increased. Fewer pediatricians are referring asthma and atopic dermatitis patients to allergist-immunologists. Personal experience referring to an allergist-immunologist remains the greatest influence on current attitudes toward A/I. Prior exposure to A/I during medical education continues to have the least influence on pediatricians' attitudes toward A/I.   CONCLUSION Increased appropriate referrals and improved patient outcomes could result from efforts to enhance A/I education during medical school and residency, maintain effective communication with referring physicians, and break down referral barriers to improve physicians' attitudes toward A/I.
OBJECTIVE Effective communication between inpatient and outpatient providers may mitigate risks of adverse events associated with hospital discharge. However, there is an absence of pediatric literature defining effective discharge communication strategies at both freestanding children's hospitals and general hospitals. The objectives of this study were to assess associations between pediatric primary care providers' (PCPs) reported receipt of discharge communication and referral hospital type, and to describe PCPs' perspectives regarding effective discharge communication and areas for improvement.   METHODS We administered a questionnaire to PCPs referring to 16 pediatric hospital medicine programs nationally. Multivariable models were developed to assess associations between referral hospital type and receipt and completeness of discharge communication. Open-ended questions asked respondents to describe effective strategies and areas requiring improvement regarding discharge communication. Conventional qualitative content analysis was performed to identify emergent themes.   RESULTS Responses were received from 201 PCPs, for a response rate of 63%. Although there were no differences between referral hospital type and PCP-reported receipt of discharge communication (relative risk 1.61, 95% confidence interval 0.97-2.67), PCPs referring to general hospitals more frequently reported completeness of discharge communication relative to those referring to freestanding children's hospitals (relative risk 1.78, 95% confidence interval 1.26-2.51). Analysis of free text responses yielded 4 major themes: 1) structured discharge communication, 2) direct personal communication, 3) reliability and timeliness of communication, and 4) communication for effective postdischarge care.   CONCLUSIONS This study highlights potential differences in the experiences of PCPs referring to general hospitals and freestanding children's hospitals, and presents valuable contextual data for future quality improvement initiatives.
Facial plastic surgeons have a comprehensive understanding of the challenges that patients with cleft lip and palate encounter in form and function. Because there are areas in the United States where access to cleft care is limited, opportunities exist for facial plastic surgeons to develop cleft teams to provide greater availability of services to patients. A consensus statement has been developed by the Cleft and Craniofacial Subcommittee of the Specialty Surgery Committee of the American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery that outlines strategies for facial plastic surgeons who are prepared to assume leadership roles in domestic multidisciplinary cleft team initiatives.
OBJECTIVE Direct costs for children who had stroke are similar to those for adults. There is no information regarding the out-of-pocket costs families encounter. We described the out-of-pocket costs families encountered in the first year after a child's ischemic stroke.   METHODS Twenty-two subjects were prospectively recruited at four centers in the United States and Canada in 2008 and 2009 as part of the 'Validation of the Pediatric NIH Stroke Scale' study; families' indirect costs were tracked for 1 year. Every 3 months, parents reported hours they did not work, nonreimbursed costs for medical visits or other health care, and mileage. They provided estimates of annual income. We calculated total out-of-pocket costs in US dollars and reported costs as a proportion of annual income.   RESULTS Total median out-of-pocket cost for the year after an ischemic stroke was $4354 (range, $0-$28,666; interquartile range, $1008-$8245). Out-of-pocket costs were greatest in the first 3 months after the incident stroke, with the largest proportion because of lost wages, followed by transportation, and nonreimbursed health care. For the entire year, median costs represented 6.8% (range, 0%-81.9%; interquartile range, 2.7%-17.2%) of annual income.   CONCLUSIONS Out-of-pocket expenses are significant after a child's ischemic stroke. The median costs are noteworthy provided that the median American household had cash savings of $3650 at the time of the study. These results with previous reports of direct costs provide a more complete view of the overall costs to families and society. Childhood stroke creates an under-recognized cost to society because of decreased parental productivity.
Over 90% of children with chronic conditions survive into adulthood necessitating primary care teams to care for adults with pediatric-onset chronic conditions. This study explores practice supports and barriers to care for this population via qualitative techniques. Using in depth interviews with twenty-two healthcare providers practice supports identified include: formalizing intake processes, interoperable electronic medical records, and leveraging care coordination. Barriers identified included: definition of the medical team, lack of appropriate medical records, time and administrative burden, lack of training, and financial constraints. Themes may be utilized to design interventions and improve care coordination for patients with pediatric-onset chronic conditions.
BACKGROUND Child health care is an important part of the UK general practice workload; in 2009 children aged <15 years accounted for 10.9% of consultations. However, only 1.2% of the UK's Quality and Outcomes Framework pay-for-performance incentive points relate specifically to children.   AIM To improve the quality of care provided for children and adolescents by defining a set of quality indicators that reflect evidence-based national guidelines and are feasible to audit using routine computerised clinical records.   DESIGN AND SETTING Multi-step consensus methodology in UK general practice.   METHOD Four-step development process: selection of priority issues (applying nominal group methodology), systematic review of National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) and Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (SIGN) clinical guidelines, translation of guideline recommendations into quality indicators, and assessment of their validity and implementation feasibility (applying consensus methodology used in selecting QOF indicators).   RESULTS Of the 296 national guidelines published, 48 were potentially relevant to children in primary care, but only 123 of 1863 recommendations (6.6%) met selection criteria for translation into 56 potential quality indicators. A further 13 potential indicators were articulated after review of existing quality indicators and standards. Assessment of the validity and feasibility of implementation of these 69 candidate indicators by a clinical expert group identified 35 with median scores 8 on a 9-point Likert scale. However, only seven of the 35 achieved a GRADE rating >1 (were based on more than expert opinion).   CONCLUSION Producing valid primary care quality indicators for children is feasible but difficult. These indicators require piloting before wide adoption but have the potential to raise the standard of primary care for all children.
Immune thrombocytopenic purpura is a bleeding disorder for which management remains mainly guided by platelet counts. Pediatric hematologists and emergency physicians collaborated to set up a limited intervention strategy, focusing on clinical bleeding severity irrespective of platelet counts, starting in the emergency room. We report how this strategy was safely applied for 106 consecutive children admitted for newly diagnosed immune thrombocytopenic purpura.
BACKGROUND Although emotional intelligence (EI) may have a role in the development of Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education core competencies, few studies have measured resident EI across specialties. This study aimed to describe the EI of resident physicians across multiple specialties.   METHODS Three hundred twenty five surgery, pediatric, and pathology residents at 3 large academic institutions were invited to complete the psychometrically validated Trait Emotional Intelligence Questionnaire.   RESULTS The response rate was 42.8% (n = 139). Global EI of all residents (101.0 짹 8.1) was comparable with, but less variable than, the general population sample and was not statistically different between specialties. Compared with the norm sample, residents in the 3 specialty groups demonstrated unique combinations of areas of relative high and low development.   CONCLUSIONS There exist distinct strengths and opportunities for the development for surgery, pediatrics, and pathology residents. Future investigations could use EI profiling to create educational interventions to develop specific areas of EI and assess correlation with resident performance.
AIMS This study is part of a current context raising questions on restraint practices in healthcare at the national and international level. It examines how social representations of restraint organize and shape the discourse of professionals within the context of healthcare and support for sick and/or disabled children. The main objective was to understand how these social representations were expressed in restraint practices.   POPULATION AND METHODS A qualitative method using semi-structured interviews was chosen to meet the goals set out. The research was conducted with 15 healthcare professionals in pediatrics, infant intensive care, and neurorespiratory rehabilitation at Raymond Poincar챕 Hospital. The data were processed using a content analysis of the thematic type.   RESULTS The results suggest that social representations particularly affect the experience of these professionals and the representations they may have concerning the experience of children, parents, and the role played by the latter in restraint situations. They also show that restraint is a multidimensional object that is difficult to understand, particularly because of the current context of questioning this practice within pediatric departments.   CONCLUSION Despite certain methodological limitations, this study has contributed to a reflective process around restraint practices within a psychosocial approach of understanding the subject and its issues.
BACKGROUND The number of visits to the pediatric emergency services has increased in the past 20 years in France and around the world, especially for neonates (under 28 days of age).   OBJECTIVES Determine for neonates the reasons requiring medical consultation in the emergency pediatric unit of Saint-Etienne University Hospital (France) and isolate the proportion of 'non-urgent' preventable consultations that could be managed outside of emergency units.   METHOD Epidemiological, retrospective study on computerized data on neonates who were referred to the pediatric emergency unit of the Saint-횋tienne University Hospital from 1 January to 31 December 2011. Four composite criteria 'child not addressed by a healthcare professional; severity score G1, G2, G3 based on an internal scale; no further review undertaken; and return home' were used to define 'non-urgent' consultations.   RESULTS A total of 419 infants were included in the study. The leading reasons for consultations were crying (14.1%), vomiting (11.9%), chest tightness (10.7%), fever (8.1%), and diarrhea (7%). The main diagnoses were acute nasopharyngitis (11.5%), gastroesophageal reflux (10%), colic (8.1%), and excessive parental anxiety (7.6%). The percentage of 'non-urgent' consultations was 52.4%.   CONCLUSIONS Final diagnoses are quite similar to the reasons for consultation. The baby's unexplained crying and the inexperience of young parents resulted in an irrational anxiety. This study highlights the need for parental support at home after discharge from the maternity ward and the use of large-scale educational initiatives.
The indication for use of laparoscopy, in the pediatric population, was initially for diagnostic purposes. As confidence with the technology and utility grew, it began to be applied for therapeutic indications. With equivalent surgical outcomes and decreased morbidity, the usefulness of a laparoscopic approach became more apparent, and today minimally invasive surgery is an indispensable tool in the management of many pediatric urologic conditions. The management of renal pathologies using laparoscopy is now currently the approach of choice for most pediatric renal maladies.
Minimally invasive surgery (MIS) has changed pediatric urology and general surgery, offering less morbidity and new surgical options for many procedures. This promise goes unrealized when technical methods lag. Application of MIS in children is uneven after more than 2 decades of application. Principles of versatile and proficient technique may remain unstated and implicit in surgical training, often leaving surgical training an exercise in inference and imitation. This article describes some essential practical principles of precision MIS applied to patients of any size.
UNLABELLED As financial pressures drive health care to be more cost-effective and efficient, performing procedures outside the main operating room (MOR) is becoming more common. Pediatric sedation units (PSU) have proven both effective and safe at providing anesthesia for children. However, there is limited data available regarding the PSU and its potential application in pediatric otolaryngology.   OBJECTIVE To evaluate the experience of performing pediatric outpatient procedures in a PSU through a parental satisfaction survey.   METHODS Pediatric otolaryngology procedures performed in the PSU were prospectively recorded in a database. A prospective survey analysis was performed that measured parental satisfaction with scheduling/registration for surgery, nursing care, surgeon care, facility environment, timing/duration, and overall satisfaction. Parents completed this survey for outpatient procedures performed in either the PSU or in the MOR. The same attending surgeon was involved in all cases, with the only independent variable being the location of the surgery. Fifty surveys were collected for each group, and the surveys scores were statistically compared using nonparametric statistical analysis.   RESULTS Parental satisfaction was high in both the PSU and OR, with mean overall satisfaction scores of 4.8 and 4.9 (respectively) on an ordinal scale from 1 to 5. Parents reported greater clarity in preoperative information in the MOR (mean 4.8) compared to the PSU (mean 4.6) (p<0.006). Also, parents reported that MOR procedures started on time more often than those in the PSU (90-64%, p<0.002). There were no significant differences between locations in any other survey metrics, with mean satisfaction scores ranging from 4.5 to 5.0.   CONCLUSIONS The PSU is a satisfactory patient experience for outpatient procedures in pediatric otolaryngology at our institution. However, this parent survey has identified education prior to surgery and timeliness of surgery as two areas to improve to meet the satisfaction standard provided by the OR.
OBJECTIVES To evaluate the reliability and accuracy of the most visited Internet websites for the frequently performed surgical pediatric otorhinolaryngology procedures.   STUDY A google.com search was used to determine the top 20 Internet sites for the terms 'adenoidectomy', 'tonsillectomy' and 'ventilation tube surgery'. The DISCERN plus questionnaire was used to score each website. Furthermore, a 'hit list' of reliable and accurate websites was created depending on the most clicked healthcare organizations with corporate identities and the personal websites of the otolaryngologists with academic titles who were members of the Turkish Society of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery. The pages were also investigated as if they were in this list of accurate websites.   RESULTS Of the 60 websites viewed for the terms 'adenoidectomy', 'tonsillectomy' and 'ventilation tube surgery', only 23.3% were matching the list of accurate websites. The mean DISCERN plus score was 35.70 (16-58), 38.02 (16-80) and 39.08 (16-58) for adenoidectomy, tonsillectomy and ventilation tube surgery respectively. There was no significant difference between the three groups (p>0.05). The mean DISCERN plus score for all the websites was 37.37 out of the maximum score of 80.   CONCLUSIONS In the light of our results we can conclude that the quality of data on the Internet is not adequate enough to obtain information about the most frequent surgical procedures in pediatric otorhinolaryngology. Clinicians must be aware about this fact and warn the parents about the disinformation which may lead to wrong decisions.
Children with mental health problems are increasingly being evaluated and treated in pediatric clinical settings. This article focuses on the epidemiology, evaluation, and management of the 2 most common pediatric mental health emergencies, suicidal and homicidal/aggressive patients, as well as the equally challenging population of children with autism or other developmental disabilities.
PURPOSE To measure the effect of electronic health record (EHR) implementation on productivity and efficiency in the pediatric ophthalmology division at an academic medical center.   METHODS Four established providers were selected from the pediatric ophthalmology division at the Oregon Health & Science University Casey Eye Institute. Clinical volume was compared before and after EHR implementation for each provider. Time elapsed from chart open to completion (OTC time) and the proportion of charts completed during business hours were monitored for 3 years following implementation.   RESULTS Overall there was an 11% decrease in clinical volume following EHR implementation, which was not statistically significant (P = 0.18). The mean OTC time ranged from 5.5 to 28.3 hours among providers in this study, and trends over time were variable among the four providers. Forty-four percent of all charts were closed outside normal business hours (30% on weekdays, 14% on weekends).   CONCLUSIONS EHR implementation was associated with a negative impact on productivity and efficiency in our pediatric ophthalmology division.
BACKGROUND A number of specialized educational programs (i.e., simulation fellowships) have been developed, but their characteristics are not well known.   OBJECTIVE We studied the characteristics of existing simulation fellowship programs.   METHODS Fellowships were identified and characteristics determined from public sources and direct survey.   RESULTS Seventeen fellowships were identified. The sponsoring academic unit was emergency medicine in 53%, pediatric emergency medicine in 7%, urology in 7%, emergency medicine/anesthesiology in 13%, and interdisciplinary units in 20%. Fifty-nine percent were open to emergency medicine residency graduates, and 12% were open to either anesthesia or emergency medicine graduates, or 12% to physician graduates of any specialty. One fellowship was open to pediatric emergency medicine graduates only and another specifically to surgically trained physicians. Seventy-eight percent indicated that fellows were required to work clinically as part of the fellowship, averaging 19 hours per week. Twenty-seven percent of fellowships were 1 year in length and 13% were 2 years. Common (47%) was the option of a 1- or 2-year fellowship, with those in the 2-year track earning a graduate degree or certificate. Most programs accepted a single fellow each year, and some accepted either one or two. Fellowships reported a high fill rate.   CONCLUSIONS The 17 identified fellowship programs differed greatly in length, sponsoring academic unit, and prerequisites. The majority require their fellows to provide clinical service. Fellowships reported a high fill rate, suggesting substantial interest in simulation among current residents.
OBJECTIVES To identify factors associated with efficient operating room work flow on high volume pediatric otolaryngology days and the effects on provider and perceived parent satisfaction.   METHODS Retrospective review was performed of a sample of 20 days with greater than 10 cases per day performed by a pediatric otolaryngologist operating in 2 rooms. Turnover time and complications were the main outcome measures. Providers from otolaryngology and anesthesia that participated in these days were surveyed regarding efficiency, safety, and satisfaction.   RESULTS 223 cases were performed over 20 operative days. The average turnover time was significantly longer in 'major' surgeries (p=0.03), cases with multispecialty involvement (p=0.01), cases requiring intubation (p<0.001), and in cases where a fellowship trained pediatric anesthesiologist (p=0.01) or CRNA was present (p<0.001). When comparing 'fast' (<25min average turnover) operative days vs. 'slow' (>25min average turnover) days, presence of a non-fellowship trained anesthesiologist (p<0.001), and the presence of an anesthesiology resident (p=0.03) were significantly associated with 'fast' days, while the presence of a CRNA was associated with 'slow' days (p<0.001). A significantly greater proportion of patients required intubation on 'slow' turnover days vs. 'fast' days (p=0.13). Only one complication was observed (0.4%). 48 providers were surveyed with a 63% response rate. Reported satisfaction amongst providers was significantly greater on days with at least 10 cases (p=0.047) and on days with turnover times of 25min or less (p<0.001). Pre-operative nursing evaluation/preparation of the patient, inter-provider communication and delays in room cleaning/setup were identified most often as causative factors responsible for delays in turnover.   CONCLUSIONS High-operative volume operating days are common in pediatric otolaryngology and can be safely performed in an efficient manner. Appropriate scheduling and high-level communication between providers is needed to ensure success on these days. Identified areas of potential inefficiency can be a starting point for work flow optimization practices.
AIM OF THE STUDY To study the clinical and biological profile of 棺-thalassemic patients in our region, reflecting the quality of their care.   PATIENTS AND METHODS A retrospective study (2010-2011) on 26 棺-thalassemic patients followed in the pediatrics service at CHU Farhat Hached Sousse, Tunisia. Epidemiological, clinical and biological data were collected from medical records and transfusion files of patients. The transfusion protocol adopted was to maintain a hemoglobin level>10g/dL by regular transfusions every 3-4 weeks. Iron chelation therapy, in order to maintain serum ferritin<1500ng/mL, was introduced when serum ferritin exceeded 800-1000ng/mL.   RESULTS The mean age of patients at diagnosis was 15 months. The clinical impact of anemia had resulted in failure to thrive in 54% of patients and facial dysmorphism in 23%. The average transfusion requirement was estimated at 311.02mL/kg/year with 6 cases of hyperconsumption. The immunohaematological monitoring showed the appearance of anti-RBC alloimmunization in one patient and 4 cases of autoimmunization. Poor adherence of chelation therapy was 62% and causing 5 cases of cardiac complications, 4 cases of liver injury and 14 cases of endocrine complications.   CONCLUSION Improving the therapeutic care of 棺-thalassemic children requires better monitoring of transfusion recovery and improved adherence to chelation therapy.
With the development of prenatal ultrasound and of foetal medicine, the paediatric surgeon has extended his knowledge of the natural history of surgical malformations. He is a part of the prenatal team and parents should always be referred to him when a surgical malformation is suspected, even when termination of pregnancy is planned because of an expected poor prognosis. Direct contact between the prenatal medicine specialist and the paediatric surgeon is also highly recommended to ensure continuity in the messages delivered to the parents. Postnatal counselling does not compare with prenatal counselling, and the paediatric surgeon has learned from the obstetrician to modulate his talk by including other conditions that might affect the outcome of the foetus, especially genetically determined syndromes. When the foetal malformation is diagnosed very early, especially in the first trimester, it therefore seems important for the consultation with the paediatric surgeon to be scheduled when the complementary exams required by the anomalies diagnosed are done, in order to avoid later contradictory messages. Repeated consultations should be favoured as they allow provision of more precise information regarding changes in ultrasound and/or MRI images and so decrease parents柳 anxiety and help them to take their decision. Foetal surgery, which has reached various stages of development in different countries, requires paediatric surgeons and obstetricians to join forces to optimise procedures and evaluate their benefit/risk ratio. Since 2004, the National Rare Disease Plan in France has allowed the creation of Rare Disease Centres, which deal with congenital malformations and produce recommendations for the health care pathway of these patients by means of a multidisciplinary approach. This greatly enhances interdisciplinary communication and ensures that best care is provided to the parents-to-be and to their child.
OBJECTIVE Concern about resident and patient safety has led to changes in Accreditation Council on Graduate Medical Education requirements over the past decade, with duty hour limitations in 2003 and 2011. This study examines pediatric residents' experiences on the impact of fatigue before, during, and after this time.   METHODS An annual survey of graduating pediatrics residents was administered to a national, random sample in 2002, 2004, and 2013. Respondents were asked about the impact of fatigue. Multivariable logistic regression was conducted to compare differences between survey years.   RESULTS The combined response rate for all 3 years was 62.6% (1,251 of 2,000). In multivariable analyses, residents were less likely in both 2004 and 2013 than in 2002 to fall asleep during an educational conference (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 0.61, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.41-0.91 and aOR 0.32, 95% CI 0.22-0.45, respectively) and to fall asleep while driving from work (aOR 0.55, 95% CI 0.37-0.81 and 0.43, 95% CI 0.31-0.60, respectively). Residents were less likely in 2004 than in 2002 to report making an error in patient care due to fatigue (aOR 0.46, 95% CI 0.27-0.76); however, in 2013 resident report of making an error in patient care due to fatigue returned to levels similar those reported in 2002.   CONCLUSIONS Surveys of graduating pediatrics residents over the past decade (2002-2013) indicate overall reduced fatigue effects. During this same time frame, however, reports about making patient care errors improved but then returned to a level not significantly different from 2002, a finding warranting further exploration.
INTRODUCTION With the increased emphasis on the importance of early identification of paediatric hearing loss within developing countries such as South Africa and Nigeria there has been a recognition of the ethical obligation to ensure access to timely diagnostic and intervention services for children identified with hearing loss; regardless of their geographic or socioeconomic status. There are limited studies on diagnosis of paediatric hearing loss in a developing world context.   OBJECTIVES The objective of this study was to determine processes used for diagnosis of paediatric hearing loss in South Africa, across the private and public healthcare sectors, and to profile the age of testing for each component of the diagnostic test battery.   METHODS Diagnostic audiology testing data of 230 children enrolled in an early intervention programme was analysed to profile the reporting of diagnostic audiology testing as well as diagnostic audiology procedures employed. Results were analysed according to province as well as healthcare sector to compare diagnostic services across regions as well as healthcare sectors.   RESULTS The differences in audiology practice and tests employed with paediatric clients across the regions of Gauteng, Kwazulu Natal and Western Cape indicates that services across regions and across the public and private sector are not equitable. Each region is equally unlikely to complete a full, comprehensive diagnostic evaluation on paediatric clients. The age of testing highlights the increased age of diagnosis of hearing loss.   CONCLUSION Paediatric diagnostic audiology is a section of Early Hearing Detection and Intervention services that requires attention in terms of the appropriateness of procedures as well as equity of services. Further studies on diagnostic practice and resources in South Africa will provide information on factors that are preventing adherence to international best practice guidelines for paediatric diagnostic audiology.
Advances in cystic fibrosis (CF) care transformed the condition from one considered lethal by age 7 into a chronic illness (median lifespan, >40 years). With the growing numbers of adults with CF voicing their preference for care in age appropriate settings, the CF community met the challenge by developing an adult-focused care system modeled on the highly successful pediatric CF centers. Adult CF programs ensure lifelong CF specialty care. Preparation for transfer occurs in a process of 'transition.' This article reviews progress in transition-related care and provides recommendations for research and clinical practice to improve the transition process.
The NPRTSG has collected data on pediatric KTx since 1994. The registry archives information from all centers that perform pediatric KTx in Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden and has 100% coverage. The first NPRTSG report was published in 1998 and was based on data collected in the 19821996 period. The present report provides data on 602 pediatric KTx in the Nordic countries from 1997 to 2012. Comparison of the patient demographics and one- and three-yr graft survivals between the two time cohorts revealed no significant change in the recipient and donor demographics. The number of transplantations increased by approximately 30%, doubling the recipients below the age of two yr. The use of Tac and mycophenolate as primary immunosuppression increased from practically 0% to 50% and 40%, respectively. The one- and three-yr graft survivals improved significantly (p < 0.001), especially among the youngest recipients with transplant from DD. In these patients, the one-yr survival improved from 70% to 94.6% and the three-yr graft survival from 60% to 94.6%, respectively. The improved graft survival may be at least partly due to changes in immunosuppression strategies, but also greater experience may also be of importance.
OBJECTIVE To examine national trends in the receipt of asthma action plans, an intervention recommended by the National Asthma Education and Prevention Program guidelines.   STUDY DESIGN We used data from the sample child component of the National Health Interview Survey from 2002, 2003, 2008, and 2013 to examine the percentage of children 2-17 years of age with asthma (n = 3714) that have ever received an asthma action plan. Bivariate and multivariate (with adjustment for sociodemographic characteristics and asthma outcomes consistent with greater disease severity) logistic regressions were conducted to examine trends from 2002 to 2013 and to examine, with 2013 data only, the relationship between having received an asthma action plan and both sociodemographic characteristics and indicators of asthma severity.   RESULTS The percentage of children with asthma that had ever received an asthma action plan increased from 41.7% in 2002 to 50.7% in 2013 (P < .001 for trend). In 2013, a greater percentage of non-Hispanic black (58.4%) than non-Hispanic white (47.4%) children (P = .028), privately insured (56.2%) vs those with public insurance only (46.3%) (P = .016), and users of inhaled preventive asthma medication vs those that did not (P < .001) had ever received an asthma action plan. Adjusted results were similar.   CONCLUSION The percentage of US children with asthma that had ever received an asthma action plan increased between 2002 and 2013, although one-half had never received an asthma action plan in 2013. Some sociodemographic and asthma severity measures are related to receipt of an asthma action plan.
The study purpose was to describe how bedside nurses can use nursing bedside shift report (NBSR) to keep patients safe. NBSR has been recommended as a means of increasing patient safety, but little is known about how or whether it does so. Grounded theory methods were used. Data were collected from 2014 to 2015 with bedside nurses in a pediatric unit with an established NBSR process. The primary process by which bedside nurses use NBSR to keep patients safe is reducing risk of harm through conveying the patient story from shift to shift. Having a perspective from the bedside is a key antecedent to reducing risk of harm, as it supports the nurses' ability to subsequently identify and address risks. Although often seen as a routine exchange of information, how nursing shift report is conducted can impact patient safety. The study reinforces the value of targeting nursing communication to improve patient safety.
The 9-valent Human Papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine, 9vHPV, was licensed in the U.S. in December, 2014. We assessed healthcare provider (HCP) awareness of the newly approved vaccine and identified questions HCPs have about the vaccine. As part of a larger study, we used semi-structured interviews to ask 22 pediatric HCPs about their awareness of 9vHPV, questions they have about the vaccine, and questions they anticipate from patients and parents. Interviews were audio-recorded and transcribed then analyzed using inductive content analysis. Over half were aware of the vaccine but few HCPs claimed to be familiar with it. HCPs indicated several questions with common themes pertaining to efficacy, side effects, and cost. Only half of HCPs believed patients or parents would have questions. The results suggest strategies and areas for health systems and public health organizations to target in order to resolve unmet educational needs among HCPs regarding 9vHPV.
Palliative care for infants, children, and adolescents encompasses numerous transitions and thresholds of uncertainty that challenge conventional clinical medicine. Palliative care clinicians have opportunities to be more comfortable amid such challenges, or perhaps even overcome them, if they are attuned to the unique times and places in which patients, their families, and caregivers find themselves throughout illness and recovery or transitioning toward the end of life. Patient-clinician encounters often dwell in these liminal places. The concept of liminality gives validation to the patient or family's being 'stuck in places betwixt and between' a past life rich with relationship and purpose and an acute, chronic, or critical illness. Or having resolved the acute crisis of hospitalization that place between the past bounds of illness and the uncertain path forward, perhaps even toward death. Liminality provides a framework for addressing the unbound spaces that patients and families occupy: What is past is behind-the present place is tenuous and temporary, and what is ahead uncertain. This place is where palliative care clinicians can offer clinicians and families guidance.
OBJECTIVE Little is known about designing an effective residency curriculum for pediatric craniofacial surgery. This study elucidates the pediatric craniofacial curriculum of the Plastic Surgery In-Service Training Examination (PSITE) to facilitate knowledge acquisition during residency.   DESIGN Approximately, 6 consecutive PSITEs were reviewed for pediatric craniofacial questions (2010-2015). Subjects were categorized according to topics on the American Board of Plastic Surgery written board examination. Questions were categorized using an educational taxonomy model. Answer references were categorized by source and publication lag.   RESULTS Of 1174 PSITE questions, 147 tested pediatric craniofacial topics (12.5%). Questions appeared predominately in the Craniomaxillofacial section (83.0%, p < 0.001). The annual representation was stable more than 6 years (range: 10.2%-14.4%, p = 0.842). Question taxonomy favored interpretation (45.6%) and decision-making (40.8%) over recall (13.6%, p < 0.001) skills, and 41 questions had an associated image (27.9%) and most were photographic (76.7%, p < 0.001). The most frequently tested categories on the American Board of Plastic Surgery written examination content outline were craniofacial anomalies (23.5%), benign and malignant tumors (17.6%), and cleft lip and palate (12.5%). Overall, 80 unique journals were cited 304 times with a mean publication lag of 9.4 짹 10.9 years. Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery (34.5%) was the most cited journal (p < 0.001).   CONCLUSIONS These data may assist in designating core knowledge competency in pediatric craniofacial surgery for plastic surgery residents. A further understanding of PSITE utility for core knowledge competency in pediatric craniofacial surgery would be the focus of future work.
BACKGROUND Computer based assessments of paediatrics in our institution use series of clinical cases, where information is progressively delivered to the students in a sequential order. Three types of formats are mainly used: Type A (single answer), Pick N, and Long-menu. Long-menu questions require a long, hidden list of possible answers: based on the student's initial free text response, the program narrows the list, allowing the student to select the answer. This study analyses the psychometric properties of Long-menu questions compared with the two other commonly used formats: Type A and Pick N.   METHODS We reviewed the difficulty level and discrimination index of the items in the paediatric exams from 2009 to 2015, and compared the Long-menu questions with the Type A and Pick N questions, using multiple-way analyses of variances.   RESULTS Our dataset included 13 exam sessions with 855 students and 558 items included in the analysis, 212 (38혻%) Long-menu, 201 (36혻%) Pick N, and 140 Type A (25혻%) items. There was a significant format effect associated with both level of difficulty (p=.005) and discrimination index (p<.001). Long-menu questions were easier than Type A questions(+5.2혻%; 95 % CI 1.1-9.4혻%), and more discriminative than both Type A (+0.07; 95 % CI 0.01-0.14), and Pick N (+0.10; 95 % CI 0.05-0.16) questions.   CONCLUSIONS Long-menu questions show good psychometric properties when compared with more common formats such as Type A or Pick N, though confirmatory studies are needed. They provide more variety, reduce the cueing effect, and thus may more closely reflect real life practice than the other item formats inherited from paper-based examination that are used during computer-based assessments.
The aim of this systematic review is to determine the diagnostic accuracy of clinical feeding evaluation (CFE) compared to instrumental assessments in detecting oropharyngeal aspiration (OPA) in children. This is important to support clinical decision-making and to provide safe, cost-effective, higher quality care. All published and unpublished studies in all languages assessing the diagnostic accuracy of CFE compared to videofluoroscopic swallowing study (VFSS) and/or fibre-optic endoscopic examination of swallowing (FEES) in detecting OPA in paediatric populations were sought. Databases were searched from inception to April 2015. Grey literature, citations, and references were also searched. Two independent reviewers extracted and analysed data. Accuracy estimates were calculated. Research reports were translated into English as required. Six studies examining the diagnostic accuracy of CFE using VFSS and/or FEES were eligible for inclusion. Sample sizes, populations studied, and CFE characteristics varied widely. The overall methodological quality of the studies, assessed with QUADAS-2, was considered 'low'. Results suggested that CFEs trialling liquid consistencies might provide better accuracy estimates than CFEs trialling solids exclusively. This systematic review highlights the critical lack of evidence on the accuracy of CFE in detecting OPA in children. Larger well-designed primary diagnostic test accuracy studies in this area are needed to inform dysphagia assessment in paediatrics.
OBJECTIVES To determine the indications, practices and outcomes of transfusion on children.   DESIGN A descriptive retrospective study.   SETTING Paediatric wards of University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital, Enugu, Nigeria.   SUBJECTS Children one month to 18 years that received blood transfusion.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Indications for the transfusion, haemoglobin rise, vital signs, duration of transfusion and adverse events.   RESULTS The two hundred and thirty eight transfusions reviewed were given amongst 95 patients, at a ratio of 2.5 transfusions per patient. The indicators of the transfusion were: malignancy (31.7%), sepsis (15.1%), sickle cell anaemia (12.1%), malaria (10.0%), hyperbilirubinaemia (10.0%), HIV/AIDS (8.3%), nephrotic syndrome (7.2%) and malnutrition (5.4%). Whole blood (56.4%) and sedimented cells (36.3%) were the main types of blood transfused. About 96.4% were transfused appropriate volume of blood. The mean Haemoglobin concentration (Hb) increase was 3.1g/dl and 12.8% of the recipients recorded an Hb increase of 5g/dl. The mean duration of transfusion was 4.6 hours and 59.7% of the transfusions exceeded the recommended four hours. Pulse and respiratory rates returned to normal post transfusion in 26.1 and 21.8% of the recipients respectively. In 10% of the transfusions there were minor adverse events; chills/fever (5.1%), itching (3.4%), hypothermia (1.0%) and vomiting (0.5%).   CONCLUSION Blood transfusion in this tertiary institution is not common and mainly due to non-communicable diseases. The expected optimal rise in Hb and normalising of vitals sign are not always the case. The duration of most transfusions was unduly prolonged and transfusion-related adverse events are rare.
OBJECTIVE The purpose of this study was to provide validity and feasibility evidence for the use of an objective structured clinical examination in the assessment of pediatric critical care medicine trainees.   DESIGN This was a validation study. Validity evidence was based on Messick's framework.   SETTING A tertiary, university-affiliated academic center.   SUBJECTS Seventeen pediatric critical care medicine fellows were recruited in 2012 and 2013 academic year.   INTERVENTIONS None. All subjects completed an objective structured clinical examination assessment.   MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS Seventeen trainees were assessed. Simulation scenarios were developed for content validity by pediatric critical care medicine and education experts using CanMEDS competencies. Scenarios were piloted before the study. Each scenario was evaluated by two interprofessional raters. Inter-rater agreement, measured using intraclass correlations, was 0.91 (SE = 0.09) across stations. Generalizability theory was used to evaluate internal structure and reliability. Reliability was moderate (G-coefficient = 0.67, 過-coefficient = 0.52). The greatest source of variability was from participant by station variance (40.6%). Pearson correlation coefficients were used to evaluate the relationship of objective structured clinical examination with each traditional assessment instruments: multisource feedback, in-training evaluation report, short-answer questions, and Multidisciplinary Critical Care Knowledge Assessment Program. Performance on the objective structured clinical examination correlated with performance on the Multidisciplinary Critical Care Knowledge Assessment Program (r = 0.52; p = 0.032) and multisource feedback (r = 0.59; p = 0.017), but not with the overall performance on the in-training evaluation report (r = 0.37; p = 0.143) or short-answer questions (r = 0.08; p = 0.767). Consequences were not assessed.   CONCLUSION Validity and feasibility evidence in this study indicate that the use of the objective structured clinical examination scores can be a valid way to assess CanMEDS competencies required for independent practice in pediatric critical care medicine.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW Approximately one in five children admitted to a pediatric ICU have a new central nervous system injury or a neurological complication of their critical illness. The spectrum of neurologic insults in children is diverse and clinical practice is largely empirical, as few randomized, controlled trials have been reported. This lack of data poses a substantial challenge to the practice of pediatric neurocritical care (PNCC). PNCC has emerged as a novel subspecialty, and its presence is expanding within tertiary care centers. This review highlights the recent advances in the field, with a focus on traumatic brain injury (TBI), cardiac arrest, and stroke as disease models.   RECENT FINDINGS Variable approaches to the structure of a PNCC service have been reported, comprising multidisciplinary teams from neurology, critical care, neurosurgery, neuroradiology, and anesthesia. Neurologic morbidity is substantial in critically ill children and the increased use of continuous electroencephalography monitoring has highlighted this burden. Therapeutic hypothermia has not proven effective for treatment of children with severe TBI or out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. However, results of studies of severe TBI suggest that multidisciplinary care in the ICU and adherence to guidelines for care can reduce mortality and improve outcome.   SUMMARY There is an unmet need for clinicians with expertise in the practice of brain-directed critical care for children. Although much of the practice of PNCC may remain empiric, a focus on the regionalization of care, creating defined training paths, practice within multidisciplinary teams, protocol-directed care, and improved measures of long-term outcome to quantify the impact of such care can provide evidence to direct the maturation of this field.
This research examined pediatric oncologists coping strategies when their patients died of cancer. Twenty-one pediatric oncologists at 2 Canadian pediatric academic hospitals were interviewed about their coping strategies when patients died or were in the process of dying. The grounded theory method of data collection and data analysis were used. Line-by-line coding was used to establish codes and themes and constant comparison was used to establish relations among emerging codes and themes. Pediatric oncologists used engagement coping strategies with primary and secondary responses including emotional regulation (social support and religion), problem solving (supporting families at end of life), cognitive restructuring (making a difference and research), and distraction (breaks, physical activity, hobbies and entertainment, spending time with own children). They also used disengagement coping strategies that included voluntary avoidance (compartmentalization and withdrawing from families at end of life). Given the chronic nature of patient death in pediatric oncology and the emotionally difficult nature of this work, medical institutions such as hospitals have a responsibility to assist pediatric oncologists in coping with this challenging aspect of their work. Future research is needed to evaluate how best to implement these changes on the institutional level to help oncologists cope with patient death and the effect of using these strategies on their quality of life.
BACKGROUND Throughout history, visitation of the hospitalised child has always been restricted. The subject of whether hospitalised children should be visited by other children has been accorded minimal attention.   OBJECTIVE To determine the current status of visitation of the hospitalised children and the parents and healthcare providers'views on hospitalised children being visited by other children.   DESIGN A descriptive study carried out using quantitative and qualitative methods in two phases   SETTING All paediatric wards at Kenyatta National Hospital and Gertrudes Children's Hospital.   SUBJECTS Nurses, paediatricians and parents of hospitalised children.   RESULTS A total of 161 parents participated in phase I of the study whereas 11 nurses not specialised in paediatric nursing, 13 paediatric nurses, 12 nurse managers, fur paediatricians and13 parents participated in phase II of the study. The study established that visiting of the hospitalised child by family members especially children aged below twelve years is severely restricted particularly in the public hospital. Despite this, however, majority of the healthcare providers and the parents acknowledged the importance of the hospitalised children being visited by other children. This is because it promotes healing, gives the sick child psychological satisfaction and relieves anxiety in the hospitalised child, the accompanying parent and the other children. The risk of exposing the visiting children to infection was cited as the main reason for the restrictions.   CONCLUSION Both the healthcare providers and the hospitalised children's parents appreciate the importance of the hospitalised child being visited by other children. There is a need to review healthcare policies to make provision for hospitalised children to be visited by other children.
To date, no study has analyzed the use of deep PS for pediatric renal biopsies by a dedicated sedation team in an outpatient setting. Retrospective analysis of renal biopsies performed at CHOA from 2009 to 2013. Patient demographics, procedure success, and sedation-related events were analyzed. Logistic regression techniques were applied to identify characteristics associated with procedure safety and success. A total of 174 biopsies from 136 patients, aged 2-21 yr, were reviewed. Of the 174 biopsies, 63 of 174 (36%) were from native, and 111 of 174 (64%) were from transplanted kidneys, respectively. No deaths, allograft losses, or unanticipated hospital admissions occurred. The most commonly utilized interventions during sedation were blow-by oxygen (29.9%) and CPAP (12.1%). Children receiving the combination of F + P had significantly higher biopsy success rates vs. other drug combinations (96.1% vs. 79%; p = 0.014). There was no difference in complication rates regardless of drug combination or biopsy type (transplanted vs. native). The combination of F + P yields a high procedural success rate for outpatient native and transplanted kidney biopsies. We identified a number of sedation-related events that can be easily managed by a well-trained sedationist team.
There has been extensive research on the use of acupuncture in adults with a wide array of conditions. Much less research has been conducted on the use of acupuncture in children. In this article, we review the history and philosophy of acupuncture, and the literature on its effectiveness and safety in children and adolescents, giving special attention to the pediatric and adolescent conditions that have been most studied in high-quality randomized controlled trials (RCTs).
INTRODUCTION There is little information about the role of the radiologist at multidisciplinary team meetings; in particular their influence on patient management. To evaluate the influence of radiologists on clinical patient management during multidisciplinary meetings.   METHODS Prospective data were collected over a 5-week period from multidisciplinary team meetings across four paediatric clinical domains. Radiological input was recorded for each case discussion, including the type of influence and its potential effect on clinical patient management.   RESULTS One hundred and forty paediatric cases were reviewed. Radiological advice was requested from the radiologist for 25.7% (N = 36) of cases. In 17.9% (N = 25) this advice was judged to have influenced clinical patient management. There were two cases where new imaging findings were discovered.   CONCLUSIONS Radiologists influence clinical patient management during multidisciplinary team meetings primarily by providing differential diagnoses and guidance regarding future imaging, with respect to both the necessity and the modality. Occasionally, when imaging is reviewed at these meetings, new findings are discovered that impact on patient management.
PURPOSE A dearth in pediatric drug development often leaves pediatricians with no alternative but to prescribe unlicensed or off-label drugs with a resultant increased risk of adverse events. We present the current status of pediatric drug development and, based on our data analysis, clarify the problems in this area. Further action is proposed to improve the drug development that has pediatric therapeutic orphan status.   METHODS We analyzed all Phase II/III and Phase III trials in ClinicalTrials.gov that only included pediatric participants (<18 years old) between 2006 and 2014. Performance index, an indicator of pediatric drug development, was calculated by dividing the annual number of pediatric clinical trials by million pediatric populations acquired from Census.gov. Effects of the 2 Japanese premiums introduced in 2010, for the enhancement of pediatric drug development, were analyzed by comparing mean performance index prepremiums (2006-2009) and postpremiums (2010-2014) among Japan, the European Union, and the United States. The European Union Clinical Trials Register and published reports from the European Medicines Agency were also surveyed to investigate the Paediatric Committee effect on pediatric clinical trials in the European Union.   FINDINGS Mean difference of the performance index in prepremiums and postpremiums between Japan and the European Union were 0.296 (P < 0.001) and 0.066 (P = 0.498), respectively. Those between Japan and the United States were 0.560 (P < 0.001) and 0.281 (P = 0.002), indicating that pediatric drug development in Japan was more active after the introduction of these premiums, even reaching the level of the European Union. The Pediatric Regulation and the Paediatric Committee promoted pediatric drug development in the European Union. The registered number of clinical trials that includes at least 1 participants <18 years old in the European Union Clinical Trials Register increased by 247 trials (from 672) in the 1000 days after regulation. The ratio of pediatric clinical trials with an approved Paediatric Investigation Plan increased to >15% after 2008.   IMPLICATIONS Recruitment and ethical obstacles make conducting pediatric clinical trials challenging. An improved operational framework for conducting clinical trials should mirror the ever-improving regulatory framework that incentivizes investment in pediatric clinical trials. Technological approaches, enhancements in electronic medical record systems, and community approaches that actively incorporate input from physicians, researchers, and patients could offer a sustainable solution to recruitment of pediatric study participants. The key therefore is to improve pediatric pharmacotherapy collaboration among industry, government, academia, and community. Expanding the regulatory steps taken in the European Union, United States, and Japan and using innovative clinical trial tools can move pediatric pharmacotherapy out of its current therapeutic orphan state.
BACKGROUND Electronic learning allows individualized education and may improve student performance. This study assessed the impact of e-modules about infection control and congenital infections on medical knowledge.   METHODS A descriptive study was conducted involving third-year medical students on pediatric clerkship. e-Module content in three different formats was developed: a text monograph, a PowerPoint presentation, and a narrated PowerPoint lecture. Students' use of the e-modules was tracked, as was participation in the infectious disease rotation and the order of pediatric rotation. Pre- and posttests specific to the e-module content and National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME) pediatric exam scores were recorded.   RESULTS Among 67 participants, 63% of them visited at least one e-module. Neither accessing any e-modules, timing of pediatric clerkship, nor assignment to ID rotation resulted in improved posttest nor NBME scores. Seventy percent of students rated the e-modules as satisfactory and reported usage improved their confidence with the congenital infections topic.   DISCUSSION e-Modules did not improve student performance on NBME or posttest; however, they were perceived as satisfactory and to have improved confidence among those who used them. This study underscores the importance of formally evaluating electronic and other innovative curricula when implemented within existing medical education frameworks.
BACKGROUND Maintaining long-term central venous catheters (CVCs) in children undergoing chemotherapy can be challenging. Guidewire catheter exchange (GCE) replaces a CVC without repeat venipuncture. This study evaluated the indications, success rate, and complications of GCE in a large cohort of pediatric cancer patients.   PROCEDURE Medical records of pediatric cancer patients who underwent GCE at our institution between 2003 and 2013 were retrospectively reviewed. Variables analyzed included gender, age at GCE, primary cancer diagnosis, indication for GCE, absolute neutrophil count (ANC) at GCE, vein used, success rate, and postoperative complications (<30 days after exchange).   RESULTS A total of 435 GCEs performed in 407 patients (230 males and 177 females) were reviewed. Median age at GCE was 8 years (range, 0.2-24). Acute lymphoblastic leukemia was the most common diagnosis (50.6%). The primary indication for GCE was the desire to have an alternative type of CVC (71%). Other indications included catheter displacement (17%), catheter malfunction (11%), and catheter infection (1%). Median ANC at GCE was 2,581/mm(3) (range, 0-43,400). Left subclavian vein was more commonly used (57.7%). The success rate of GCE was 93.4% (406 of 435 procedures, 95% confidence interval: 91.0-97.5%). A total of 33 (7.5%) postoperative complications occurred including central line associated bloodstream infection (CLABSI) (n = 20, 4.5%), catheter dislodgement (n = 6, 1.4%), and catheter malfunction (n = 7, 1.6%).   CONCLUSIONS We conclude that GCE in pediatric cancer patients is associated with a high success rate and a low risk of complications. The most common postoperative complication, CLABSI, occurred at a rate significantly lower than following de novo CVC placement.
PURPOSE To examine known-groups validity of the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS(짰)) Short Forms (SFs) for adolescents and young adults with special healthcare needs (SHCN) using data collected from the PROMIS Linking Study.   METHODS In total, 292 adolescents aged 14-17.9혻years and 300 young adults aged 18-20혻years with SHCN from the PROMIS Linking Study were used for analyses. Presence of SHCN was classified into three categories (medication use, service use, and functional limitations). HRQoL was measured with the PROMIS Pediatric and Adult SFs. Differences in health-related quality of life (HRQoL) domain scores between SHCN sample and the norms of the PROMIS pediatric and adult calibration samples, respectively, were compared using t tests. Associations of HRQoL scores with the presence of individual SHCN categories were tested using linear regression.   RESULTS All HRQoL domain scores for the SHCN samples were significantly worse than the respective calibration samples. Adolescents and young adults with SHCN-related service use and functional limitations reported worse HRQoL than those without service use and functional limitations (p's혻<혻0.01).   CONCLUSIONS PROMIS Pediatric and Adult SFs possess satisfactory known-groups validity related to SHCN status.
A 16-year-old Hispanic girl with an elevated body mass index in an otherwise normal state of health presented for her well-child examination. She had signs of metabolic syndrome and insulin resistance including increased waist circumference and acanthosis nigricans. Laboratory results revealed elevated transaminases with otherwise normal hepatic function. Based on the physical examination and laboratory results, she was diagnosed with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). After further evaluation, she eventually underwent a liver biopsy. The biopsy revealed nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) with stage 2 fibrosis. This article reviews the definition of NAFLD and NASH, an increasingly prevalent cause of pediatric chronic liver disease associated with obesity and metabolic syndrome. The article also outlines the epidemiology, risk factors, and natural history of NAFLD, which may help identify and prevent high-risk pediatric patients from progressing to irreversible liver disease. Understanding the diagnostic and treatment options offers the best chance at preventing and reversing the early stages of this disease.
INTRODUCTION It remains unclear how HbA1c recommendations influence metabolic control of paediatric patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus. To evaluate this we compared reported HbA1c with guideline thresholds.   MATERIALS AND METHODS We searched systematically MEDLINE and EMBASE for studies reporting on HbA1c in children with T1DM and grouped them according to targeted HbA1c obtained from regional guidelines. We assessed the discrepancies in the metabolic control between these groups by comparing mean HbA1c extracted from each study and the differences between actual and targeted HbA1c.   RESULTS We included 105 from 1365 searched studies. The median (IQR) HbA1c for the study population was 8.30% (8.00%-8.70%) and was lower in '6.5%' than in '7.5%' as targeted HbA1c level (8.20% (7.85%-8.57%) versus 8.40% (8.20%-8.80%); p = 0.028). Median difference between actual and targeted HbA1c was 1.20% (0.80%-1.70%) and was higher in '6.5%' than in '7.5%' (1.70% (1.30%-2.07%) versus 0.90% (0.70%-1.30%), resp.; p < 0.001).   CONCLUSIONS Our study indicates that the 7.5% threshold results in HbA1c levels being closer to the therapeutic goal, but the actual values are still higher than those observed in the '6.5%' group. A meta-analysis of raw data from national registries or a prospective study comparing both approaches is warranted as the next step to examine this subject further.
We examined 4872 infants born consecutively, 2011-2012, and seen at 3 primary care centers to determine whether area-based socioeconomic measures were associated with noncompletion of common preventive services within the first 15 months. Addresses were geocoded and linked to census tract poverty, adult educational attainment, and household vehicle ownership rates. The quartile of patients in the highest poverty (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 1.25; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.01-1.54) and lowest vehicle ownership tracts (aOR 1.32; 95% CI 1.07-1.63) had significantly increased odds of service noncompletion. There were significant spatial clusters of low completion in Cincinnati's urban core. These findings have implications for preventive service delivery.
Childhood glaucoma is known to be one of the most challenging conditions to manage. Surgical management is more complicated than in adults because of differences in anatomy from adults along with variations in anatomy caused by congenital and developmental anomalies, wide-ranging pathogenetic mechanisms, a more aggressive healing response, and a less predictable postoperative course. Challenges in postoperative examination and management in less cooperative children and the longer life expectancies preempting the need for future surgeries and reinterventions are also contributing factors. Angle surgery is usually the first-line treatment in the surgical management of primary congenital glaucoma because it has a relatively good success rate with a low complication rate. After failed angle surgery or in cases of secondary pediatric glaucoma, options such as trabeculectomy, glaucoma drainage devices, or cyclodestructive procedures can be considered, depending on several factors such as the type of glaucoma, age of the patient, and the severity and prognosis of the disease. Various combinations of these techniques have also been studied, in particular combined trabeculotomy-trabeculectomy, which has been shown to be successful in patients with moderate-to-advanced disease. Newer nonpenetrating techniques, such as viscocanalostomy and deep sclerectomy, have been reported in some studies with variable results. Further studies are needed to evaluate these newer surgical techniques, including the use of modern minimally invasive glaucoma surgeries, in this special and diverse group of young patients.
To compare stroke volumes (SV) in small hearts assessed by real-time three-dimensional echocardiography (3DE) with SV measured by transpulmonary thermodilution (TPTD) and continuous pulse contour analysis (PC) under various hemodynamic conditions. In thirteen anesthetized piglets (range 3.6-7.1혻kg) SV were measured by 3DE, TPTD and PC at baseline and during phenylephrine and esmolol administration. 3DE and TPTD measurements were done successively while SV calculated by PC was documented at the time of 3DE. 3DE and TPTD showed a good correlation (r2혻=혻0.74) and a bias of -1.3혻ml (limits of agreement -4.1 to 1.5혻ml). While TPTD measured higher SV than 3DE, both methods tracked SV changes with a concordance rate of 91혻%. PC and 3DE showed a lower correlation coefficient of r2혻=혻0.57 and a bias of -2.1혻ml (limits of agreement -5.9 to 1.8혻ml). Inter- and intra-observer variability of SV measured by 3DE was good with a mean bias <5혻%. SV3DE showed a small variance and tracked acute small changes in SV in acceptable concordance with TPTD. PC measured SV with a higher variance and mean difference compared to 3DE. In an experimental setting 3DE has the possibility to offer non-invasive assessments of ventricular volumes volume changes. To determine whether 3DE could be used for SV assessment in a clinical routine our results need confirmation in a clinical setting.
Pain is a complex experience, and its quantification involves many aspects including physiological, behavioural, and psychological factors. References related to the topic were selected and analysed, along with a PubMed search of the recent and earlier reports. Assessment of pain in infants and children has always been a dilemma for the clinicians. Unlike in adults, it is difficult to assess and effectively treat pain in paediatric age groups, and it often remains untreated or undertreated. Misperceptions are attributed not only to the difficulties in isolating the specific signs of pain but also in recognising and inferring the meaning of the cues available in the complex of individual differences in the reaction pattern of children to pain. In children, several parameters such as age, cognitive level, type of pain, etc. are required to be considered for the selection of appropriate pain assessment tools. Although considerable progress has been made, there is a critical need for a more accurate measurement tool for both research and clinical purposes. This review has critically analysed the various techniques available to assess pain in children with emphasis on current research and present-day status of paediatric pain assessment.
CONTEXT Use of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) by children under 18 y of age in the United States is becoming more prevalent. According to an analysis of procedures in chiropractic practices in 2010, more than 96% of chiropractors in the United States recommended use of movement therapies (MT) and relaxation techniques (RT) to their patients. The extent of use of these methods as treatment options for specific health conditions in children, however, has been underexplored in the United States.   OBJECTIVES The current study assessed use of MT and RT in children for treatment of various health conditions, as reported in the 2007 National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), and also examined variations in use across various sociodemographic categories.   DESIGN Secondary data from the 2007 National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) Child Alternative Medicine file were analyzed, and the research team generated weighted frequencies and inferential statistics.   OUTCOME MEASURES Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were computed through binary logistic regression to assess use of MT and RT as functions of various sociodemographic variables.   RESULTS Within the 12 mo prior to the survey, MT and RT use was reported by 2.5% and 2.9% of respondents, respectively. MT, primarily yoga, was used for the control and reduction of anxiety and stress (31.4%), asthma (16.2%), and back/neck pain (15.3%). Alternatively, RT, such as controlled breathing exercises (2.1%) and meditation (2.3%), was used for anxiety and stress (41.4%) and attention-deficit disorders (ADDs) (16.0%). Although data screening did not produce obvious predictors for RT use, age, gender, race/ethnicity, and parents' education levels were potential predictors of MT use. For example, respondents aged <10 y reported lower MT use than those >10 y (OR = 0.4; 95% CI, 0.3-0.6), and males reported lower MT use than females (OR = 0.5; 95% CI, 0.3-0.7).   CONCLUSION MT and RT are used by several million children in the United States each year. The current research suggests that early training on MT and RT can be seen as a useful tool that can help prevent or manage certain health problems. In addition to an examination of their role in primary prevention, the use of MT and RT should be explored further to determine how these therapies work with respect to specific health conditions.
Education in the knowledge, skills, and attitudes necessary for a surgeon to perform at an expert level in the operating room, and beyond, must address all potential cognitive and technical performance gaps, professionalism and personal behaviors, and effective team communication. Educational strategies should also seek to replicate the stressors and distractions that might occur during a high-risk operation or critical care event. Finally, education cannot remain fixed in an apprenticeship model of 'See one, do one, teach one,' whereby patients are exposed to the risk of harm inherent to any learning curve. The majority of these educational goals can be achieved with the addition of simulation-based education (SBE) as a valuable adjunct to traditional training methods. This article will review relevant principles of SBE, explore currently available simulation-based educational tools for pediatric surgeons, and finally make projections for the future of SBE and performance assessments for pediatric surgeons.
PURPOSE The objective of this study was to identify and describe management strategies to ensure safe return to activity (RTA) and return to school (RTS) of children with mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI) and determine whether they are evidence-based.   METHODS A scoping methodology was conducted using research published between 1990 and 2013, gray literature and clinical expertise. Once the data had been charted, an expert panel of physicians and clinicians was consulted to inform and validate study findings. An analytical and thematic framework was used to examine the study findings.   RESULTS A total of 400 potentially relevant published articles, 100 websites and 24 iPad Applications were found. Ten articles and three web-based resources met inclusion criteria and were included in the final review. Nine articles recommended a more conservative approach to RTA, as well as identified a step-wise or severity-oriented approach. General recommendations were also found regarding safe RTS. One study recommended a stepwise RTS protocol for children.   CONCLUSIONS This scoping methodology determined that the most comprehensive guidelines for management are focused on adults. Evidence concerning prolonged recovery patterns in children and the impact of concussion on the developing brain suggests that pediatric-specific guidelines are needed for RTA and RTS after MTBI/concussion.   IMPLICATIONS FOR REHABILITATION Although concussion in children is an increasing concern, it has been determined that the most comprehensive guidelines for management are focused on adults. These guidelines are primarily consensus-based and are not proven fact through quality research. Evidence concerning prolonged recovery patterns in youth and the impact of concussion on the developing brain suggest that pediatric guidelines should be more conservative than for adults. Therefore, pediatric-specific guidelines need to be developed for return to activity and return to school after MTBI/concussion.
Novel immune-based therapies are becoming available as additions to, and in some cases as alternatives to, the traditional treatment modalities such as chemotherapy, surgery and radiation that have improved outcomes for childhood cancer for decades. In this article, we will discuss what immunotherapies are being tested in the clinic, barriers to widespread application, and the future of immuno-oncology for childhood cancer. While in many cases, these therapies have shown dramatic responses in the setting of refractory or relapsed cancer, much remains to be learned about how to integrate these therapies into existing upfront regimens. The progress and challenges of developing immunotherapies for childhood cancer in a timely and cost-effective fashion will be discussed.
There is growing interest in pediatric decision science, spurred by policies advocating for children's involvement in medical decision making. Challenges specific to pediatric decision research include the dynamic nature of child participation in decisions due to the growth and development of children, the family context of all pediatric decisions, and the measurement of preferences and outcomes that may inform decision making in the pediatric setting. The objectives of this article are to describe each of these challenges, to provide decision researchers with insight into pediatric decision making, and to establish a blueprint for future research that will contribute to high-quality pediatric medical decision making. Much work has been done to address gaps in pediatric decision science, but substantial work remains. Understanding and addressing the challenges that exist in pediatric decision making may foster medical decision-making science across the age spectrum.
BACKGROUND Adolescents can face multiple barriers when attempting to access primary health care and primary health providers often feel poorly placed to provide care. The Adolescent Resilience Clinic (ARC) was established to help overcome some of these difficulties.   AIM To evaluate whether goals of the ARC were achieved and identify areas for future improvement.   METHODS A retrospective review of records for all patients referred to the ARC from May 2011 to May 2012.   RESULTS A total 41 patients were seen, aged 12-18 years, the majority of whom (98%) were female. NZ Maori was the most common ethnicity (54%). Contraceptive needs and psychosocial issues were the predominant referral reasons. After consultation, most patients (81%) had multiple diagnoses. The proportion of patients participating in 'risky' behaviours showed this group to be at risk of adverse outcomes. However, only 7% of patients had a complete HEeADSS assessment (an acronym guiding systematic psychosocial history taking assessing Home, Education or employment, Eating, Activities and affect, Drug use including cigarettes, Sexual risk behaviours and Suicide) documented.   CONCLUSIONS The ARC provides accessible healthcare to a vulnerable population. Further work is needed on how to accurately document HEeADSS assessments while ensuring confidentiality.
PURPOSE The development and implementation of a comprehensive and standardized list of pediatric i.v. medication concentrations across a large healthcare system are described.   SUMMARY In accordance with National Patient Safety Goals, facilities affiliated with the Hospital Corporation of America system had independently standardized and limited the number of drug concentrations in use. This resulted in variation among facilities, which prevented the systemwide standardization of drug dictionaries within the computerized pharmacy and prescriber-order-entry systems, complicated the movement of providers among facilities, and contributed to inconsistency in medication prescribing. A team of experts collaborated to create a comprehensive standard list that included 119 medications and 372 concentrations for pediatric i.v. medications. Implementation of this standard list was driven through a financial incentive from the malpractice insurance provider; facilities that completed the required activities for this optional program could apply for a credit of a portion of their malpractice insurance cost. For the standardization of pediatric i.v. medications, required activities included approval of the standard medication list, incorporation of this list into facility pharmacy dictionaries, and update of all smart pump software to include only the new standard medications and concentrations. Of the 145 facilities that were eligible for the implementation of standard pediatric i.v. medication concentrations, 141 (97%) completed all requirements and received the 2% malpractice insurance cost credit.   CONCLUSION The use of a financial incentive strategy, in the form of a malpractice insurance credit, successfully motivated the implementation of standardized pediatric medication concentrations across a large healthcare system.
BACKGROUND Pediatric resuscitation guidelines do not specify which hand to use for one-handed cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).   OBJECTIVE To determine whether there is a difference in the quality of one-handed chest compressions (OHCCs) using the dominant versus non-dominant hand in simulated paediatric CPR.   MATERIALS AND METHODS 41 doctors took part in the study. Chest compressions were alternately performed with the dominant (test 1) and non-dominant hand (test 2) in a random order at 30꿲in intervals. Experiments were carried out with a 5-year-old paediatric manikin without ventilation for 2꿲in. Data on average compression rate (per min) and average compression depth (mm) were collected and compared.   RESULTS No significant differences were found in the average compression rate (118.0짹14.3/min vs 117.3짹14.5/min, p=0.610) and average compression depth (41.3짹5.6mm vs 41.9짹4.1mm, p=0.327) between tests 1 and 2.   CONCLUSIONS No significant difference was found in the quality of OHCCs using the dominant and non-dominant hand in simulated paediatric CPR. The study suggests there is no need for paediatric resuscitation guidelines to state a preferred hand for performing OHCC.
BACKGROUND Paediatric trauma system development in Alaska is complicated by a vast geographic coverage area, wide regional variations in environment and culture, and a lack of available published data.   OBJECTIVE To provide a detailed description of paediatric trauma mechanisms, high-risk injury patterns and outcomes in Alaska.   DESIGN This retrospective study included all children aged 17 years or younger in the State of Alaska Trauma Registry database admitted with traumatic injury between 2001 and 2011. Each injury record was reviewed individually and assigned a mechanism based on Centers for Disease Control E-codes. Geographic definitions were based on existing Emergency Medical Services regions. Mechanisms were compared by geographic region, patient demographics, injury characteristics and outcome. Subgroup analysis of fatal injuries was performed to identify causes of death.   RESULTS Of 5,547 patients meeting inclusion criteria, the most common mechanisms of injury were falls (39%), motor vehicle collisions (10%) and all-terrain vehicle (ATV) accidents (9%). The overall case fatality rate was 2%. Mechanisms with the greatest risk of death were gunshot wounds (21%), pedestrians struck by motorized vehicles (9%) and motor vehicle collisions (5%). These 3 mechanisms accounted for 15% of injuries but 60% of deaths in the overall cohort. Injury patterns involving combined central nervous system (CNS) and torso injuries were unusual but especially lethal, occurring in 3% of patients but carrying a case fatality rate of 18%. Although the distribution of mechanisms was generally similar for each geographic region, ATV and snowmobile injuries were significantly more common in remote areas (23% remote vs. 7% non-remote, p < 0.0001).   CONCLUSIONS Mechanisms of paediatric trauma in Alaska have widely varying impacts on outcome and show some variation by region. Highest-risk mechanisms include gunshot wounds and motorized vehicle-related accidents. Prevention efforts should give special attention to CNS injury prevention, ATV and snowmobile safety in remote areas, and optimization of management of multisystem trauma. Further studies should investigate predictors of outcome in greater detail.
This article summarizes the findings of an integrative literature review of 19 publications exploring patient- and family-centered care (PFCC) in children's hospitals. The authors provide recommendations for nurse executives who are implementing PFCC in clinical practice. Findings from this review inform the evidence-based practices of nurse executives as they contemplate innovations in PFCC.
BACKGROUND The Baylor College of Medicine SBIRT Medical Residency Training Program is a multilevel project that trains residents and faculty in evidenced-based screening, brief intervention, and referral to treatment methods for alcohol and substance use problems.   METHODS This paper describes the training program created for pediatric residents and provides an evaluation of the program. Ninety-five first-year pediatric residents participated in the training program. They were assessed on satisfaction with the program, self-rated skills, observed competency, and implementation into clinical practice.   RESULTS The program was successfully incorporated into the residency curricula in two pediatric residencies. Evaluations indicate a high degree of satisfaction with the program, self-reported improvement in SBIRT skills, observed proficiency in SBIRT skills, and utilization of SBIRT skills in clinical practice.   CONCLUSIONS SBIRT skills training can be incorporated into pediatric residency training, and residents are able to learn and implement the skills in clinical practice.
Drug repurposing is the use of 'old' drugs for new indications, avoiding the need for time- and cost-intensive toxicity studies. This approach should be particularly attractive for pediatrics, but its use in this population has been limited. One obstacle has been the lack of a comprehensive database of drugs for which there already is at least one indication in children. We describe the development of The Children's Pharmacy Collaborative, which should grow over time, serve as a resource for professionals and families, and stimulate drug-repurposing efforts for a range of pediatric disorders.
OBJECTIVE With subspecialty surgical care often unavailable to poor patients in developing countries, short-term brigades have filled a portion of the gap. We prospectively assessed the cost effectiveness of a pediatric neurosurgical brigade to Guatemala City, Guatemala.   METHODS Data were collected on a weeklong annual pediatric neurosurgical brigade to Guatemala. Disability adjusted life-years (DALYs) averted were the metric of surgical effectiveness. Cost data included brigade expenses, as well as all costs incurred by the local health care system and patient families.   RESULTS During the mission, 17 pediatric neurosurgical interventions were performed. Conditions these patients suffered would result in 382 total DALYs. Using conservative values of surgical effectiveness, procedures performed averted 138.1 DALYs. Although all operative and postoperative costs were covered by the visiting surgical team, patients spent an average of $226 in U.S. dollars for preoperative workup, travel, food/lodging, and lost wages (range, $36-$538). The local health care system absorbed a total cost of $12,910. Complete mission costs were $53,152, for a cost effectiveness of $385 per DALY averted.   CONCLUSIONS To our knowledge, this is the first study evaluating cost effectiveness of a short-term neurosurgical brigade. Although surgical intervention is acknowledged as playing a crucial role in global health, subspecialty surgical care is still broadly perceived as a luxury. Although providing care through local surgeons is undeniably more efficient than bringing in foreign medical teams, such care is not universally available. This study argues that volunteer neurosurgical teams can provide high complexity care with a competitive cost-effective profile.
Historically genetics has not been considered when prescribing drugs for children. However, it is clear that genetics are not only an important determinant of disease in children but also of drug response for many important drugs that are core agents used in the therapy of common problems in children. Advances in therapy and in the ethical construct of children's research have made pharmacogenomic assessment for children much easier to pursue. It is likely that pharmacogenomics will become part of the therapeutic decision making process for children, notably in areas such as childhood cancer where the benefits and risks of therapy are considerable.
In the past several years, human genetics studies have progressed from monogenic to complex and common diseases because of the advancement in technologies. There is increased knowledge of the pharmacokinetics and pharmacogenomics of the drugs in adults as well as in children. These technological developments provided new diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic opportunities. We are now in a position to address many additional ambitious questions. For instance, in clinical medicine, interindividual variation in drug response is a major problem. Some of the heterogeneity of drug safety and efficacy among individuals can be explained by pharmacogenomics. It has also the potential to improve the treatment in both adults and children. In pediatrics however, there is ontogeny and metabolic capacity in children is different compared to adults. Several specific developmental changes may underlie some of the variability in drug response seen in children. They may also be responsible for adverse drug reactions (ADRs). Therefore, much of the diversity in drug effects cannot be explained by studying the genomic diversity alone. It is necessary to include the effect of growth (involves variations in gene expression) along with genetic differences when explaining the variability in treatment response. In this respect epigenomics may expand the scope of pharmacogenomics towards optimization of drug therapy. Future studies must focus on periods of maturation of the drug-metabolizing enzymes and polymorphisms in their genes by using candidate gene approach, gene expression analysis, genome-wide haplotype mapping, and proteomics. The integration of genetic data and clinical phenotypes along with the role of other factors is necessary to evaluate both efficacy and ADRs of any drug. It may require extensive genetic epidemiological studies spanning over many years.
OBJECTIVE To assess effectiveness and feasibility of public-private collaboration in delivering influenza immunization to children.   METHODS Four pediatric and four family medicine (FM) practices in Colorado with a common public health department (PHD) were randomized at the beginning of baseline year (10/2009) to Intervention (joint community clinics and PHD nurses aiding in delivery at practices); or control involving usual care without PHD. Generalized estimating equations compared changes in rates over baseline between intervention and control practices at end of 2nd intervention year (Y2=5/2011). Barriers to collaboration were examined using qualitative methods.   RESULTS Overall, rates increased from baseline to Y2 by 9.2% in intervention and 3.2% in control (p<.0001), with significant increases in both pediatric and FM practices. The largest increases were seen among school-aged and adolescent children (p<.0001 for both), with differences for 6-month-old to 5-year-old children and for children with high-risk conditions not reaching significance. Barriers to collaboration included uncertainty regarding the delivery of vaccine supplies, concerns about using up all purchased vaccine by practices, and concerns about documentation of vaccination if collaboration occurred.   CONCLUSIONS In spite of barriers, public-private collaboration resulted in significantly higher influenza immunization rates, particularly for older, healthy children who visit providers less frequently.
BACKGROUND Functional neurological symptom disorders are frequently the basis for acute neurological consultation. In children, they are often precipitated by high-frequency everyday stressors. The extent to which a severe traumatic experience may also precipitate functional neurological abnormalities is unknown.   METHODS For the 2-week period after the Boston Marathon bombings, we prospectively collected data on patients whose presentation suggested a functional neurological symptom disorder. We assessed clinical and demographic variables, duration of symptoms, extent of educational impact, and degree of connection to the Marathon bombing. We contacted all patients at 6 months after presentation to determine the outcome and accuracy of the diagnosis.   RESULTS In a parallel study, we reported a baseline of 2.6 functional neurological presentations per week in our emergency room. In the week after the Marathon bombings, this frequency tripled. Ninety-one percent of presentations were delayed by 1 week, with onset around the first school day after a city-wide lockdown. Seventy-three percent had a history of a prior psychiatric diagnosis. At the 6 months follow-up, no functional neurological symptom disorder diagnoses were overturned and no new organic diagnosis was made.   CONCLUSIONS Pediatric functional neurological symptom disorder may be precipitated by both casual and high-intensity stressors. The 3.4-fold increase in incidence after the Boston Marathon bombings and city-wide lockdown demonstrates the marked effect that a community-wide tragedy can have on the mental health of children. Care providers must be aware of functional neurological symptom disorders after stressful community events in vulnerable patient populations, particularly those with prior psychiatric diagnoses.
BACKGROUND Surgery, emergency medicine (EM), and pediatric resident physicians play an integral role in treating youth violence patients. We assessed these residents' behaviors, attitudes, and perceived barriers to youth violence prevention (YVP) in the acute care setting.   METHODS A cross-sectional survey of EM, surgery, and pediatric residents at one large medical institution was conducted using a theory-based self-administered paper questionnaire. Data were analyzed using descriptive statistics and Fisher's exact tests to examine differences between resident specialties.   RESULTS Of 73 residents, 55 completed the questionnaire, composed of 23 EM (42%), 18 pediatrics (33%), and 14 surgery (25%) residents, with a response rate of 75%. Fifteen percent (n = 8) of the respondents received YVP training during residency. The majority (n = 49, 91%.) of the respondents reported consistently collecting a history of events leading to violent injury. A smaller percentage of residents reported consistent assessment of retaliation risk (n = 11, 20%), referral to social work (n = 37, 69%), and screening for substance abuse (n = 37, 69%) and mental health (n = 35, 65%). Surgery residents were more likely than pediatric and EM residents to refer to social work (100% vs. 72% and 45%, p < 0.01) and screen for substance abuse (93% vs. 78% and 45%, p = 0.01). While the majority of residents agreed that youth violence is preventable (n = 50, 91%) and physicians should play a role in prevention (n = 47, 85%), there was less agreement that YVP should be a resident task (n = 38, 69%). Less than half of residents (n = 26, 47%) felt competent discussing safety risks and plans. Residents cited lack of time and training as the top two barriers for conducting risk assessments and referring to support services.   CONCLUSION While EM, surgery, and pediatric residents agree that YVP is essential and should involve physicians, many do not perceive this as part of their responsibilities, and they do not feel competent in this role.
BACKGROUND Current resuscitation guidelines recommend the use of simulation-based medical education (SBME) as an instructional methodology to improve patient safety and health. We sought to investigate the evidence-base for the effectiveness of SBME for neonatal and pediatric resuscitation training.   METHOD Therefore, we conducted a systematic literature research of electronic databases (PubMed, EMBASE, Clinical Trials).   RESULTS 13 randomized controlled trials with a total of 832 participants were identified. However, due to distinct differences in research objectives and varying outcome assessment a meta-analysis of studies could not be conducted. Eligible trials showed that SBME can enhance trainees' cognitive, technical, and behavioral skills as well as self-confidence.   DISCUSSION/CONCLUSION Skills acquired in the simulated environment can be integrated in clinical practice, and SBME might also lead to improved patient safety and health. Further research on SBME--especially investigating patient outcomes--is urgently required in order to strengthen these results and to establish a sound evidence-base for the effectiveness of SMBE for neonatal and infant resuscitation training.
OBJECTIVES Asynchronous e-learning allows for targeted teaching, particularly advantageous when bedside and didactic education is insufficient. An asynchronous e-learning curriculum has not been studied across multiple centers in the context of a clinical rotation. We hypothesize that an asynchronous e-learning curriculum during the pediatric emergency medicine (EM) rotation improves medical knowledge among residents and students across multiple participating centers.   METHODS Trainees on pediatric EM rotations at four large pediatric centers from 2012 to 2013 were randomized in a Solomon four-group design. The experimental arms received an asynchronous e-learning curriculum consisting of nine Web-based, interactive, peer-reviewed Flash/HTML5 modules. Postrotation testing and in-training examination (ITE) scores quantified improvements in knowledge. A 2 횞 2 analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) tested interaction and main effects, and Pearson's correlation tested associations between module usage, scores, and ITE scores.   RESULTS A total of 256 of 458 participants completed all study elements; 104 had access to asynchronous e-learning modules, and 152 were controls who used the current education standards. No pretest sensitization was found (p = 0.75). Use of asynchronous e-learning modules was associated with an improvement in posttest scores (p < 0.001), from a mean score of 18.45 (95% confidence interval [CI] = 17.92 to 18.98) to 21.30 (95% CI = 20.69 to 21.91), a large effect (partial 管(2) = 0.19). Posttest scores correlated with ITE scores (r(2) = 0.14, p < 0.001) among pediatric residents.   CONCLUSIONS Asynchronous e-learning is an effective educational tool to improve knowledge in a clinical rotation. Web-based asynchronous e-learning is a promising modality to standardize education among multiple institutions with common curricula, particularly in clinical rotations where scheduling difficulties, seasonality, and variable experiences limit in-hospital learning.
Antibody therapy has become standard of care for adult B cell lymphoma patients. It is a potentially less toxic and more targeted approach for lymphoma therapy and should therefore be applied to treat pediatric B cell lymphoma patients as well. In pediatric lymphoma patients, however, clinical experience with monoclonal antibodies is very limited. This is in part due to smaller patient numbers and very good outcome with conventional chemotherapy. In addition, pediatric patient and lymphoma biology differ significantly from that found in adults often precluding extrapolation of the adult experience to children. This review focuses on targeting pediatric B cell lymphoma with monoclonal antibody therapy. The special characteristics of B cell lymphomas found in children are reviewed and six potential new lymphoma target antigens are discussed.
This standards document outlines accepted standards of management for children, adolescents and young adults with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) in Australia. This document acknowledges that the chronic inflammatory arthritis conditions (JIA) in childhood are different diseases from inflammatory arthritis in adults and that specific expertise is required in the care of children with arthritis.
The American Academy of Pediatrics recognizes insufficient sleep in adolescents as an important public health issue that significantly affects the health and safety, as well as the academic success, of our nation's middle and high school students. Although a number of factors, including biological changes in sleep associated with puberty, lifestyle choices, and academic demands, negatively affect middle and high school students' ability to obtain sufficient sleep, the evidence strongly implicates earlier school start times (ie, before 8:30 am) as a key modifiable contributor to insufficient sleep, as well as circadian rhythm disruption, in this population. Furthermore, a substantial body of research has now demonstrated that delaying school start times is an effective countermeasure to chronic sleep loss and has a wide range of potential benefits to students with regard to physical and mental health, safety, and academic achievement. The American Academy of Pediatrics strongly supports the efforts of school districts to optimize sleep in students and urges high schools and middle schools to aim for start times that allow students the opportunity to achieve optimal levels of sleep (8.5-9.5 hours) and to improve physical (eg, reduced obesity risk) and mental (eg, lower rates of depression) health, safety (eg, drowsy driving crashes), academic performance, and quality of life.
OBJECTIVES Pediatric palliative care has seen the adoption of several service provision models, yet there is minimal literature describing them. Canuck Place Children's Hospice (CPCH) is North America's first freestanding pediatric hospice. This study describes the characteristics of and services delivered to all children on the CPCH program from 1996 to 2010.   METHODS A retrospective review of all patient medical records CPCH was conducted. Analyses examined trends and correlations between 40 selected data points: linear regression modeling was used to assess trends over time; t tests were used to examine significant associations between independent means; and the Kaplan-Meier method was used to measure survival probabilities.   RESULTS The study cohort included 649 children. The majority of diagnoses belonged to cancers (30%), and diseases of the neuromuscular (20%), and central nervous systems (18%). The majority of deaths occurred among the cancer (45%), central nervous system (15%), and metabolic disease groups (14%). By study end date, 24% of children were still alive, 61% died, and 15% transitioned to adult services (more than half of whom were cognitively competent). On average, 1024 days were spent on the CPCH program (median = 301). The majority of inpatient hospice discharges were for respite (82%); only 7% were for end-of-life care. Location of death was shared between CPCH (61%), hospital (22%), and home (16%).   CONCLUSIONS Diagnostic groups largely determine the nature and magnitude of services used, and our involvement with pediatric life-threatening conditions is increasing. Reviews of pediatric palliative programs can help evaluate the services needed by the population served.
Pediatricians play a key role in helping prepare patients and families for anesthesia and surgery. The questions to be answered by the pediatrician fall into 2 categories. The first involves preparation: is the patient in optimal medical condition for surgery, and are the patient and family emotionally and cognitively ready for surgery? The second category concerns logistics: what communication and organizational needs are necessary to enable safe passage through the perioperative process? This revised statement updates the recommendations for the pediatrician's role in the preoperative preparation of patients.
Dental caries remains the most common chronic disease of childhood in the United States. Caries is a largely preventable condition, and fluoride has proven effectiveness in the prevention of caries. The goals of this clinical report are to clarify the use of available fluoride modalities for caries prevention in the primary care setting and to assist pediatricians in using fluoride to achieve maximum protection against dental caries while minimizing the likelihood of enamel fluorosis.
INTRODUCTION Youth seen in the emergency department (ED) with injuries from youth violence (YV) have increased risk for future violent injury and death. Pediatric emergency medicine (PEM) physicians rarely receive training in, or perform, YV screening and intervention. Our objective was to examine effects of a web-based educational module on PEM physicians' knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors regarding YV screening and interventions in the ED.   METHODS We invited all PEM fellows and attendings at an urban Level I pediatric trauma center to complete an interactive web-based education module (and 1-month booster) with information on YV's public health impact and how to screen, counsel and refer YV-involved patients. Consenting subjects completed electronic assessments of YV prevention knowledge and attitudes (using validated measures when possible) before and after the initial module and after the booster. To measure behavior change, chart review identified use of YV-specific discharge instructions in visits by YV-injured PEM patients (age 12-17; identified by E codes) 6 months before and after the intervention. We analyzed survey data were analyzed with Fisher's exact for binary outcomes and Kruskal-Wallis for Likert responses. Proportion of patients given YV discharge instructions before and after the intervention was compared using chi-square.   RESULTS Eighteen (67%) of 27 PEM physicians participated; 1 was lost at post-module assessment and 5 at 1 month. Module completion time ranged from 15-30 minutes. At baseline, 50% of subjects could identify victims' re-injury rate; 28% were aware of ED YV discharge instructions. After the initial module and at 1 month, there were significant increases in knowledge (p<0.001) and level of confidence speaking with patients about avoiding YV (p=0.01, df=2). Almost all (94%) said the module would change future management. In pre-intervention visits, 1.6% of patients with YV injuries were discharged with YV instructions, versus 15.7% in the post-intervention period (p=0.006, 95%CI for difference 3.6%-24.5%).   CONCLUSION A brief web-based module influenced PEM physicians' knowledge and attitudes about YV prevention and may have affected behavior changes related to caring for YV victims in the ED. Further research should investigate web-based educational strategies to improve care of YV victims in a larger population of PEM physicians.
BACKGROUND The International Society of Travel Medicine (ISTM) Pediatric Interest Group (PedIG) was created in 2010. We studied the group's professional characteristics and practice patterns to identify clinical areas requiring further training and research related to pediatric international travel.   METHODS PedIG members were emailed a two-part online questionnaire in September 2011, which comprised questions about professional and practice details, followed by a survey regarding decisions on nine patient scenarios that represent common pediatric pre-travel health challenges.   RESULTS Ninety-three (34%) of 273 members completed the survey. Most were physicians (80%) having a primary specialization in pediatrics (55%) and family medicine (19%). About a third (37%) had acquired the ISTM Certificate in Travel Health (CTH); 14 and 11% chose not to provide malaria chemoprophylaxis for a 2-month-old infant and a 13-year-old child traveling to West Africa, respectively. Azithromycin for empiric treatment of travelers' diarrhea in a 2-year-old traveler to Thailand and Mexico was suggested by 74 and 58%, respectively, while the use of acetazolamide for a 2-month old infant traveling to a high-altitude destination was rarely (13%) chosen. In vaccine-focused scenarios, 71, 69, 21, and 10% would prescribe the meningococcal vaccine for a 6-month-old traveler to Burkina Faso, Japanese encephalitis vaccine to a 10-year-old traveler to Cambodia, hepatitis A vaccine to a 6-month-old traveler to El Salvador, and the typhoid vaccine to a 1-year-old traveler to India, respectively.   CONCLUSIONS Members of the PedIG have diverse professional and practice backgrounds. Lack of awareness of established guidelines may place international pediatric travelers at risk for travel-associated morbidity. Strategies are needed to facilitate education and support research in pediatric travel medicine to formulate evidence-based guidelines wherever they are currently missing.
Shared Decision Making (SDM) is the process of patients and clinicians working together to manage medical treatment using the existing knowledge base. This paper presents the YouCan framework, a system for summarizing and presenting the necessary knowledge for SDM related to pediatric cancer follow-up management. Knowledge modelling of a Clinical Practice Guideline produced a customized ontology, which was then passed through a pellet reasoned to produce a customized patient diary that summarizes a patient's oncological history as well as the potential issues they may face in follow-up.
The greatest source of delay in patient flow is the waiting time from the health care request, and especially the bed request to exit from the Pediatric Emergency Department (PED) for hospital admission. It represents 70% of the time that these patients occupied in the PED waiting rooms. Our objective in this study is to identify tension indicators and bottlenecks that contribute to overcrowding. Patient flow mapping through the PED was carried out in a continuous 2 years period from January 2011 to December 2012. Our method is to use the collected real data, basing on accurate visits made in the PED of the Regional University Hospital Center (CHRU) of Lille (France), in order to construct an accurate and complete representation of the PED processes. The result of this representation is a Workflow model of the patient journey in the PED representing most faithfully possible the reality of the PED of CHRU of Lille. This model allowed us to identify sources of delay in patient flow and aspects of the PED activity that could be improved. It must be enough retailed to produce an analysis allowing to identify the dysfunctions of the PED and also to propose and to estimate prevention indicators of tensions. Our survey is integrated into the French National Research Agency project, titled: 'Hospital: optimization, simulation and avoidance of strain' (ANR HOST).
Diagnosis and treatment for children healthcare are very sensitive activities. The present work presents an ontology based model for a future information system to support these activities. The input data contains children health status, and drug characteristics. During clinical practice a database with what specialists mark as successful treatments is created. This database is gradually growing bigger and is built by physicians based on their good results related to a treatment for a certain health condition. The new ontology system proposed in this paper is supporting the e-prescription process. The relations are managed using the open source application Prot챕g챕 and for suggesting treatments, using the database with successful treatments, we developed a special module that offers to physicians a selection from which they can chose the best treatment for their current case.
The objective of this study is to analyse the length of patient stay in Pediatric emergency department according to diagnosis and the number of patients over a 3 year-period. A survival tree was used, to explore the underlying construct of overcrowding depending of the length of patient stay. The tree was used to cluster 55.183 patients with respect to length of stay where partitioning is based on covariates such as the number of patients, the diagnosis and existence of complementary exams. The hazard ratio test was used to determine optimal partition. The approach is illustrated using Electronic Medical Record Software database available at the Pediatric Emergency Department of Lille University Hospital.
OBJECTIVES To have impact on reducing harm in pediatric inpatients, an efficient and reliable process for harm detection is needed. This work describes the first step toward the development of a pediatric all-cause harm measurement tool by recognized experts in the field.   METHODS An international group of leaders in pediatric patient safety and informatics were charged with developing a comprehensive pediatric inpatient all-cause harm measurement tool using a modified Delphi technique. The process was conducted in 5 distinct steps: (1) literature review of triggers (elements from a medical record that assist in identifying patient harm) for inclusion; (2) translation of triggers to likely associated harm, improving the ability for expert prioritization; (3) 2 applications of a modified Delphi selection approach with consensus criteria using severity and frequency of harm as well as detectability of the associated trigger as criteria to rate each trigger and associated harm; (4) developing specific trigger logic and relevant values when applicable; and (5) final vetting of the entire trigger list for pilot testing.   RESULTS Literature and expert panel review identified 108 triggers and associated harms suitable for consideration (steps 1 and 2). This list was pared to 64 triggers and their associated harms after the first of the 2 independent expert reviews. The second independent expert review led to further refinement of the trigger package, resulting in 46 items for inclusion (step 3). Adding in specific trigger logic expanded the list. Final review and voting resulted in a list of 51 triggers (steps 4 and 5).   CONCLUSIONS Application of a modified Delphi method on an expert-constructed list of 108 triggers, focusing on severity and frequency of harms as well as detectability of triggers in an electronic medical record, resulted in a final list of 51 pediatric triggers. Pilot testing this list of pediatric triggers to identify all-cause harm for pediatric inpatients is the next step to establish the appropriateness of each trigger for inclusion in a global pediatric safety measurement tool.
OBJECTIVE This study aimed to determine if a pediatric emergency care facility recognition (PECFR) program improved care processes for injured children younger than 15 years.   METHODS A controlled pre-post study design was used. Emergency department (ED) medical records were abstracted from 8 Delaware hospitals and 13 comparison hospitals in North Carolina in 2009 and again in 2013, 1 year after PECFR implementation. Data collected focused on pediatric processes of care, including vital sign assessment, pain assessment and management, treatment procedures, and diagnostic radiation.   RESULTS A majority of 1737 children (97%) had an Injury Severity Score of 9 or lower. Both hospital cohorts significantly increased initial pain assessment documentation over time (P < 0001). For children with extremity immobilization and a pain score of 5 or greater, the interval between pain assessment and pain management was significantly shorter in the Delaware hospitals (P < 0.01) compared with hospitals from North Carolina. A significant reduction in radiation use (flat film and computed tomographic imaging) was also found in Delaware hospitals (P < 0001) compared with the hospitals in North Carolina.   CONCLUSIONS Improvements in care to injured children associated with the PECFR program were limited to the interval between pain assessment and pain medication for children with extremity immobilization and to radiation use 1 year after the implementation of the PECFR program.
When epidemics occur, such as is the case for bronchiolitis in the Pediatric Emergency Department (ED), the patient flow in the ED incontestably increases and can lead to crowding. We bypassed this difficulty of forecasting patient flow with aggregated weekly or monthly data by tackling the problem from a different point of view. We used daily data to build a multiperiod Serfling-based model. This model is hereinafter assimilated to normal ED flow. We then used the fourth-order moment of distribution of the time series, obtained from the difference between the estimated model and the real data, to provide an early index announcing abnormal ED patient flow. This index is parameter-dependent and we provide criterion to assist in selecting the optimal parameters. A simple program based on this methodology has been developed and has been given to the pediatric physicians for testing. Thanks to this index, the Pediatric ED was able to anticipate crowding almost three weeks before the height of the bronchiolitis epidemic.
Primary stabbing headache (PSH) is an under-recognized primary headache disorder, which often goes undiagnosed. It is mainly characterized by its ultrashort stabbing quality and can be easily overlooked both by patients and providers as it is often not severe enough to interfere significantly with daily life. However, PSH may be severe and require therapy, and it is important for providers to recognize this headache type, both in adult and pediatric populations, as well as to be able to distinguish it from secondary headache disorders. PSH also may be more common than previously thought.
BACKGROUND Ewing sarcoma (ES) is the second most common paediatric malignant bone tumor. Advances in multi-disciplinary care have resulted in significant improvement in cure rates over the last decades. However, the generalization of those results in countries traditionally excluded from large cooperative trials has yet to be demonstrated. We report the results of modern multi-disciplinary care for patients with ES in Poland.   PROCEDURES One hundred and thirty-two patients with ES were treated using modern multi-modal therapy during the period 2000-2009. Overall survival was estimated by Kaplan-Meier methods and compared using long-rank test and Cox models. Factors predictive of outcome in our setting were analyzed to identify distinct risk groups that could help identify areas for improvement.   RESULTS The median age at the time of diagnosis was 12.3 years. With a median follow-up of 5.0 years, the 5-year event-free survival (EFS) and OS estimates for localized disease were 54.88% and 68.29%, respectively. For patients with metastatic disease, 5-year EFS and OS estimates were 36% and 42%, respectively. There was no correlation between age and stage or site. Patients with localized, non-pelvic disease had better outcome than patients with axial tumors (71% vs. 44%, respectively, P=0.00073). Treatment failure was associated with stage, pelvic primary, poor histological response, and type of local control.   CONCLUSIONS Successful treatment of ES requires optimal systemic and local therapy. We were able to replicate the results of modern multi-modal protocols. Validation of current treatment protocols in countries with more limited cancer treatment resources is required.
UNLABELLED Our objective was to assess within a feasibility study the correlation and agreement of transcutaneous carbon dioxide (PtcCO2) monitoring with venous carbon dioxide (PvCO2) in infants with bronchiolitis in the emergency room (ER) and pediatric department. Sixty infants (aged 3.6됀기3.3 months) admitted to our ER with bronchiolitis were included. PtcCO2 measurements (SenTec Digital Monitoring System) collected prospectively were compared with simultaneous PvCO2 drawn for patient care. Analysis included 100 measurements. The correlation of PtcCO2 and PvCO2 (r=0.71, p<0.001) was good, and the agreement (mean difference됀기뎤tandard deviation of the differences 1.9됀기7.0 mmHg) was adequate; average PtcCO2 was slightly lower than PvCO2. Changes in PtcCO2 and PvCO2 for consecutive measurements within each patient correlated (r=0.41, p<0.01). The level of PtcCO2 correlated with disease severity clinical score (p<0.001).   CONCLUSIONS PtcCO2 monitoring was feasible in the ER and pediatric department and was found to have a good correlation and adequate agreement with PvCO2 in infants with bronchiolitis. Because the standard deviation of the differences was relatively high, though comparable to the literature, we suggest that PtcCO2 should not replace blood gas but rather serve as a complementary tool for trending and for real-time continuous assessment of the CO2 levels.
AIM Most Italian children are cared for by a family paediatrician until they are 14 years old, and their duties include prescribing drugs recommended by specialists so that they are free. This study aimed to draw up a list of the drugs most commonly prescribed by family paediatricians.   METHODS We surveyed 64 experienced family paediatricians to find out what drugs they prescribed over an 8-week period, including those recommended by a specialist, using cartons of drugs as the unit of measurement. A list of commonly prescribed drugs was then drawn up.   RESULTS A total of 381 active substances were prescribed. The most commonly prescribed drugs were amoxicillin (25.8% of the cartons), amoxicillin clavulanate (9.2%) and cetirizine (9.0%). The most commonly prescribed drug classes were antibiotics (43.8%), anti-asthmatics (12.9%) and antihistamines (11.8%). A list of 38 commonly prescribed drugs belonging to 16 therapeutic subgroups and covering 83.1% of cartons was identified. Of these, 33 were prescribed by 50% or more of the paediatricians and five were mainly prescribed following the recommendation of a specialist.   CONCLUSION Our review of the prescribing habits of family paediatricians showed that 38 commonly prescribed drugs were sufficient to treat most common diseases in children under 15 years of age.
BACKGROUND Antimicrobial use is very common in hospitalized children. An assessment of clinician's prevailing knowledge and clinical approach to prescribing antimicrobials is helpful in order to develop the best strategies for successful stewardship programs. The objectives of the study were to determine fundamental knowledge of principles, approach to antimicrobial use through the clinical vignettes and to identify perceived challenges in decreasing antimicrobial use.   METHODS A questionnaire was developed by subject matter experts and pretested to ensure validity. Using a cross-sectional prospective design, the questionnaire was completed anonymously by staff and trainee physicians at a single tertiary care pediatric hospital between late November 2011 and February 2012.   RESULTS Of 159 eligible physicians, 86 (54.1%) responded, of which 77 (46 staff and 31 trainees) reported regularly prescribing antimicrobials. The majority of physicians had modest knowledge of factors that would increase risk of resistance however, less than 20% had correct knowledge of local resistance patterns for common bacteria. Almost half of physicians correctly answered the clinical vignettes. Over half of trainees and one third of staff relied most on online manuals for information regarding antimicrobials to assist prescription decision-making. Overall, physicians perceived that discontinuing empiric antimicrobials was the most difficult to achieve to decrease antibiotic use.   CONCLUSIONS Our results highlight several challenges that pediatric practioners face with respect to knowledge and approach to antimicrobial prescribing. Pediatric stewardship programs could in this setting focus on discontinuing antimicrobials appropriately and promoting local antibiograms in the proper clinical setting to decrease overall use of antimicrobials.
Despite many advances in recent years for patients with critical paediatric and congenital cardiac disease, significant variation in outcomes remains across hospitals. Collaborative quality improvement has enhanced the quality and value of health care across specialties, partly by determining the reasons for variation and targeting strategies to reduce it. Developing an infrastructure for collaborative quality improvement in paediatric cardiac critical care holds promise for developing benchmarks of quality, to reduce preventable mortality and morbidity, optimise the long-term health of patients with critical congenital cardiovascular disease, and reduce unnecessary resource utilisation in the cardiac intensive care unit environment. The Pediatric Cardiac Critical Care Consortium (PC4) has been modelled after successful collaborative quality improvement initiatives, and is positioned to provide the data platform necessary to realise these objectives. We describe the development of PC4 including the philosophical, organisational, and infrastructural components that will facilitate collaborative quality improvement in paediatric cardiac critical care.
This review concerns important pediatric studies published from April 2013 to March 2014. New data on pathogenesis have demonstrated that Th1 type cytokine secretion at the gastric level is less intense in children compared with adults. They have also shown that the most significant risk factor for Helicobacter pylori infection is the parents' origin and frequency of childcare in settings with a high prevalence of infection. A new hypothesis on the positive relationship between childhood H.혻pylori infection and the risk of gastric cancer in adults has been suggested which calls for an implementation of preventive programs to reduce the burden of childhood H.혻pylori infection in endemic areas. Several studies have investigated the role of H.혻pylori infection in iron-deficiency anemia, and results support the role of the bacterium in this condition. Antibiotic resistance is an area of intense research with data confirming an increase in antibiotic resistance, and the effect of CYP2C19 genetic polymorphism on proton-pump inhibitor metabolism should be further investigated as cure rates are lower in extensive metabolizers. Studies confirmed that probiotic supplementation may have beneficial effects on eradication and therapy-related side effects, particularly diarrhea in children.
Compared to in situ vascular physiology where pro and anti-hemostatic processes are in balance to maintain hemostasis, the use of ECMO in a critically ill child increases the risk of hemorrhagic or thromboembolic events due to a perturbation in the balance inherent of this complex system. The ECMO circuit has pro-hemostatic effects due to contact activation of hemostasis and inflammatory pathways. In addition, the critical illness of the child can cause dysregulation of hemostasis that may shift between hyper and hypocoagulable states over time.
OBJECTIVE To measure the difference in prescribing error rates between 2 clinics, 1 with a system in place to reduce errors and 1 with no such system; to determine variables that affect the likelihood of prescription errors.   METHODS This was a retrospective study at 2 university-based general pediatric clinics utilizing the same electronic medical record (EMR) system. Clinic 1 employed pharmacists who provided daily prescription review, provider feedback and education, and EMR customization to decrease errors. Clinic 2 had no systems in place for reducing prescribing errors. Prescriptions written by resident physicians over 2 months were identified and reviewed.   RESULTS A total of 1361 prescriptions were reviewed, 40.7% from clinic 1 and 59.3% from clinic 2. Errors were found in 201 prescriptions (14.8%). Clinics 1 and 2 had error rates of 11% and 17.5%, respectively (P = .0012). The odds of a prescription error at clinic 2 were 1.7 times the odds of a prescription error at clinic 1. Logistic regression identified clinic, nonpediatric resident, liquid dose forms, and younger patient age as significant predictors of prescription errors. Half of the errors could have been prevented with consistent use of a custom medication list within the EMR.   CONCLUSIONS We found 37% fewer prescribing errors in a clinic with systems in place for prescribing error detection and prevention. Pediatric clinics should explore systematic procedures for identifying, resolving, and providing education about prescribing errors to reduce patient risk.
OBJECTIVE To determine whether using emergency department (ED) virtual observation for select pediatric conditions decreases admission rates for these conditions, and to examine effects on length of stay.   METHODS The option of ED virtual observation care for 9 common pediatric conditions was introduced in 2009; associated order sets were developed. Retrospective secondary analyses of administrative data from our tertiary care pediatric ED and children's hospital were performed for the year before (year 0) and after (year 1) this disposition option was introduced. The proportion of visits admitted to the inpatient unit and length of stay (LOS) were determined for all visits considered eligible for ED virtual observation care on the basis of diagnosis codes for both study years.   RESULTS There were 1614 observation-eligible visits in year 0 and 1510 in year 1. In year 1, 18% (n = 266) of observation-eligible visits received ED virtual observation care. Admission rates for observation-eligible visits were similar after this model of care was introduced (25% year 0, 29% year 1, P = .02). Median LOS for ED virtual observation visits was 8.8 hours (interquartile range 6.5-12.4). ED LOS was shorter for ED discharges (5.6 hours year 0, 5.1 hours year 1, P < .001) and unchanged for admissions (6.0 hours year 0, 5.8 hours, year 1, P = .41) after introducing ED virtual observation.   CONCLUSIONS Admission rates for observation-eligible visits were not lower in the year after ED virtual observation care was introduced. LOS decreased for ED discharges and was unchanged for admissions. Reevaluation of the effects of pediatric ED virtual observation on admission rates and LOS after longer periods of use is indicated.
BACKGROUND Education in Quality Improvement for Pediatric Practice (EQIPP) is an online program designed to improve evidence-based care delivery by teaching front-line clinicians quality improvement (QI) skills. Our objective was to evaluate EQIPP data to characterize 1) participant enrollment, use patterns, and demographics; 2) changes in performance in clinical QI measures from baseline to follow-up measurement; and 3) participant experience.   METHODS We conducted an observational study of EQIPP participants utilizing 1 of 3 modules (asthma, immunizations, gastroesophageal reflux disease) from 2009 to 2013. Enrollment and use, demographic, and quality measure data were extracted directly from the EQIPP system; participant experience was assessed via an optional online survey.   RESULTS Study participants (n = 3501) were diverse in their gender, age, and race; most were board certified. Significant quality gaps were observed across many of the quality measures at baseline; sizable improvements were observed across most quality measures at follow-up. Participants were generally satisfied with their experience. The most influential module elements were collecting and analyzing data, creating and implementing aim statements and improvement plans, and completing 'QI Basics.'   CONCLUSIONS Online educational programs, such as EQIPP, hold promise for front-line clinicians to learn QI. The sustainability of the observed improvements in care processes and their linkage to improvements in health outcomes are unknown and are an essential topic for future study.
OBJECTIVE To assess pediatric residency program director (PD) perceptions of the current state of mental health (MH) training, their receptivity to curricular changes, and perceptions of their residents' knowledge and skills in MH care.   METHODS We performed a cross-sectional study utilizing a Web-based survey of pediatric residency PDs to assess program characteristics, learning modalities PDs currently had or would implement, and their knowledge of the new American Academy of Pediatrics' MH competencies. PDs then ranked their residents' knowledge and skills for 29 MH competencies. Analyses included descriptive statistics and bivariate and multivariate analyses to assess for associations between variables, particularly MH model of care and perceived competence.   RESULTS Ninety-nine PDs (51%) responded. A total of 87% of PDs reported that MH care was taught as part of another rotation, yet PDs were receptive to curricular changes. Only 45% of PDs were aware of the 2009 American Academy of Pediatrics competencies, and PDs infrequently rated their residents' MH skills and knowledge to be above average. Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) was an exception: 64% reported above-average ADHD knowledge in diagnoses and 57% in treatment. There was an association between enhanced MH services in continuity clinics and perceived resident systems-based practice (P < .01) and medical knowledge (P = .04).   CONCLUSIONS PDs acknowledged that MH training is not emphasized, leading to deficiencies in their residents' knowledge and skills in MH care. The receptivity of PDs suggests the need for targeted dissemination of national guidelines or curriculum. Integrated models of care may be one way to improve resident competencies, but this deserves further study.
BACKGROUND Preparation for residents participating in global health (GH) experiences is critical. Active preparatory curricula allowing residents to experience and debrief emotional challenges they may encounter abroad are generally lacking. We sought to evaluate a novel simulation curriculum designed to prepare residents for emotions they may experience in response to challenges abroad.   METHODS Pediatric GH educators from 7 institutions developed case vignettes incorporating common challenges residents experience abroad. Residents participating in a GH training track or planning to participate in a GH rotation from the 7 institutions were eligible to participate in the simulation curriculum. Participants and trained facilitators completed postsimulation evaluations that were analyzed using descriptive statistics and thematic analysis of written comments to assess the utility of the curriculum, emotions evoked, and changes residents anticipated making to their GH rotation preparation.   RESULTS Fifty-one residents and 16 facilitators completed 160 and 52 evaluations, respectively. Overall, respondents found the simulations useful (mean [SD] resident score 4.49 [0.82] and facilitator score 4.85 [0.36] on a 5-point scale [1 = completely useless, 5 = very useful]). Residents reported strong emotions in 153 (98%) of 156 comments. After the sessions, 131 (96%) of 137 comments reflected anticipated changes to GH rotation preparation plans.   CONCLUSIONS Active preparation for GH rotations using simulated cases appears to be a useful tool that can be implemented across a variety of sites with minimal facilitator training or simulation experience. The curriculum successfully elicited powerful emotions in residents and provided an opportunity to debrief these experiences before encountering them abroad.
BACKGROUND A number of articles addressing various aspects of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) were published in the Health and Quality of Life Outcomes (HQLO) journal in 2012 and 2013. This review provides a summary of studies describing recent methodological advances and innovations in HRQoL felt to be of relevance to clinicians and researchers.   METHODS Scoping review of original research articles, reviews and short reports published in the HQLO journal in 2012 and 2013. Publications describing methodological advances and innovations in HRQoL were reviewed in detail, summarized and grouped into thematic categories.   RESULTS 358 titles and abstracts were screened initially, and 16 were considered relevant and incorporated in this review. Two studies discussed development and interpretation of HRQoL outcomes; two described pediatric HRQoL measurement; four involved incorporation of HRQoL in economic evaluations; and eight described methodological issues and innovations in HRQoL measures.   CONCLUSIONS Several studies describing important advancements and innovations in HRQoL, such as the development of the PROMIS pediatric proxy-item bank and guidelines for constructing patient-reported outcome (PRO) instruments, were published in the HQLO journal in 2012 and 2013. Proposed future directions for the majority of these studies include extension and further validation of the research across a diverse range of health conditions.
In the new health care marketplace, families will be making important decisions concerning choice of health plan, health provider, and even accountable care organizations. Ideally, they would make these decisions using information on health care value, which comprises the relationships between patient/family-centered outcomes (the outputs of health care services) and costs of providing care to achieve these outcomes. Providing information on pediatric value will require new investments in data collection systems that include outcomes that matter to children and families and costs measured at the level of the child. The analysis of these data must account for the perspective of the user of the information. In the case of families, direct standardization should be used to contrast care in one health care system with another according to the unique characteristics of each family and child.
OBJECTIVE We sought to explore the claims data-related issues relevant to quality measure development for Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), illustrating the challenges encountered and solutions developed around 3 distinct performance measure topics: care coordination for children with complex needs, quality of care for high-prevalence conditions, and hospital readmissions.   METHODS Each of 3 centers of excellence presents an example that illustrates the challenges of using claims data for quality measurement.   RESULTS Our Centers of Excellence in pediatric quality measurement used innovative methods to develop algorithms that use Medicaid claims data to identify children with complex needs; overcome some shortcomings of existing data for measuring quality of care for common conditions such as otitis media; and identify readmissions after hospitalizations for lower respiratory infections.   CONCLUSIONS Our experience constructing quality measure specifications using claims data suggests that it will be challenging to measure key quality of care constructs for Medicaid-insured children at a national level in a timely and consistent way. Without better data to underpin pediatric quality measurement, Medicaid and CHIP will have difficulty using some existing measures for accountability, value-based purchasing, and quality improvement both across states and within states.
Health care reform has increased demand for pediatric health care quality evaluations, particularly those that assess the impact of care on patient and population health outcomes. Many of today's most common childhood conditions are characterized by symptoms, behaviors, and functional limitations that are best assessed as patient reported outcomes (PROs). Although they remain greatly underutilized, PROs have the potential to improve pediatric health care quality assessment at the point of care and through system-level performance evaluations. The functions, benefits, and challenges of these PRO applications are described and illustrated in case examples. Although challenges remain, numerous methodological and technical innovations facilitate the use of PROs as health care quality metrics. These include advances in PRO measure development methodologies, the integration of PRO measures into electronic health records, and developing consensus among providers that PROs provide valuable information that can be used to enhance patient care. Although additional work is needed to address remaining methodological challenges, pediatric PROs are increasingly recognized as valuable indicators of health care quality in the clinical environment and as measures of organization- and provider-level performance.
OBJECTIVE In 2009, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) publicly released an initial child core set (CCS) of health care quality measures for voluntary reporting by state Medicaid and Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) programs. CMS is responsible for implementing the reporting program and for updating the CCS annually. We assessed selected CCS measures for potential retirement.   METHODS We identified a 23-member external advisory group to provide relevant expertise. We worked with the group to identify 4 major criteria with multiple subcomponents for assessing the measures. We provided information corresponding to each criterion and subcriterion, using a variety of sources such as the 2009 Medicaid Analytic eXtract (MAX), state-level Medicaid and CHIP data submitted to the CMS, and summaries of published literature on clinical and quality improvement effectiveness related to the CCS topics. Using this information, the group: 1) used a modified Delphi process to score the measures in 2 anonymous scoring rounds (on a scale of 1 to 9 in each round); 2) voted on whether each measure should be retired; and 3) provided narrative explanations of their choices (which formed the basis of our qualitative findings). Recommendations were reviewed by CMS before promulgation to state programs.   RESULTS The Subcommittee of the National Advisory Council on Healthcare Research and Quality (SNAC) recommended that the 4 major criteria be importance, scientific acceptability, feasibility, and usability. The SNAC recommended 3 measures for retirement: access to primary care; testing for strep before recommending antibiotics for pharyngitis; and annual HbA1c testing of children with diabetes. Explanations for suggesting retirement of the measures included: views that the well-visit measures were a better measure of access than the primary care measure; a likely ceiling effect (pharyngitis); and the paucity of clinical evidence and low prevalence (both for HbA1c). CMS recommended that state Medicaid and CHIP programs retire 2 of the recommended measures from the CCS, but retained the access to primary care measure.   CONCLUSIONS Periodic reassessment of the value of health care quality measures can reduce reporting burden and allow measure users to focus on measures with higher likelihood of leading to improvements in quality of care and child health outcomes.
This article describes four areas of pediatric orthopaedic education, research, and clinical care undertaken at Texas Scottish Rite Hospital (TSRH) over the past 25 years. These areas include the weekly preoperative conferences, the evolution of the limb lengthening and deformity correction program, the development of the TSRH instrumentation system, and the evolution of the clubfoot treatment program.
Paediatric postmortem imaging is distinct and different from adult postmortem imaging due to differences in disease aetiology, pathology and imaging approaches, which require a particular skill set to maximise its yield and clinical utility. Practitioners need to have expertise in several aspects of radiology, including both plain radiographs and cross-sectional imaging modalities, knowledge of specialist techniques, and familiarity with the unique range of pathologies in this patient population, including perinatal pathology. Here we outline the training requirements that should be considered to establish such a service.
The use of telemedicine technologies by primary care pediatricians, pediatric medical subspecialists, and pediatric surgical specialists (henceforth referred to as 'pediatric physicians') has the potential to transform the practice of pediatrics. The purpose of this policy statement is to describe the expected and potential impact that telemedicine will have on pediatric physicians' efforts to improve access and physician workforce shortages. The policy statement also describes how the American Academy of Pediatrics can advocate for its members and their patients to best use telemedicine technologies to improve access to care, provide more patient- and family-centered care, increase efficiencies in practice, enhance the quality of care, and address projected shortages in the clinical workforce. As the use of telemedicine increases, it is likely to impact health care access, quality, and education and costs of care. Telemedicine technologies, applied to the medical home and its collaborating providers, have the potential to improve current models of care by increasing communication among clinicians, resulting in more efficient, higher quality, and less expensive care. Such a model can serve as a platform for providing more continuous care, linking primary and specialty care to support management of the needs of complex patients. In addition, telemedicine technologies can be used to efficiently provide pediatric physicians working in remote locations with ongoing medical education, increasing their ability to care for more complex patients in their community, reducing the burdens of travel on patients and families, and supporting the medical home. On the other hand, telemedicine technologies used for episodic care by nonmedical home providers have the potential to disrupt continuity of care and to create redundancy and imprudent use of health care resources. Fragmentation should be avoided, and telemedicine, like all primary and specialty services, should be coordinated through the medical home.
Telemedicine is a technological tool that is improving the health of children around the world. This report chronicles the use of telemedicine by pediatricians and pediatric medical and surgical specialists to deliver inpatient and outpatient care, educate physicians and patients, and conduct medical research. It also describes the importance of telemedicine in responding to emergencies and disasters and providing access to pediatric care to remote and underserved populations. Barriers to telemedicine expansion are explained, such as legal issues, inadequate payment for services, technology costs and sustainability, and the lack of technology infrastructure on a national scale. Although certain challenges have constrained more widespread implementation, telemedicine's current use bears testimony to its effectiveness and potential. Telemedicine's widespread adoption will be influenced by the implementation of key provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, technological advances, and growing patient demand for virtual visits.
BACKGROUND Clinical experience suggests that measurement of left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (EF) using two-dimensional echocardiography (2DE) is often at variance with results of three-dimensional echocardiography (3DE) in patients who have undergone heart transplantation (HT). The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that LV mechanical dyssynchrony and abnormal regional strain are present in asymptomatic pediatric HT patients and that they promote errors in the measurement of LV function when 2DE is used.   METHODS HT subjects and normal volunteer children were prospectively enrolled. All had normal estimated right ventricular systolic pressure and function. LV EF, global and regional strain, and systolic dyssynchrony index (SDI) were quantified using real time 3DE. SDI was determined from volume-time curves of the 16 LV segments and expressed as the standard deviation of the heart rate-corrected time to reach minimal segmental systolic volume. Septal strain was defined as the average of five segments in the interventricular septum. In addition to 3DE, the Teichholz, biplane Simpson, and bullet (5/6 area-length) methods were used to measure EF using 2DE in each subject. Ninety-three examinations were done: 40 in the 40 normal control subjects (mean age, 14.6 짹 10.6 years; 10 male) and 53 in 36 HT subjects (mean age, 10.3 짹 6.2 years; 21 male).   RESULTS SDI was greater in HT patients (mean, 6.2 짹 4.3%) than in normal controls (mean, 2.2 짹 1.1%) (P < .0001). Global and septal strain was lower in HT patients than in normal controls. EF divergence (absolute difference between two- and three-dimensional EFs) was greater in HT patients (mean, 3.8 짹 2.2%) than in normal controls (mean, 0.7 짹 0.5%) (P < .0001). EF divergence had a strong positive correlation with SDI (adjusted r짼 = 0.46, P < .001) and negative correlations with all measures of strain (range of adjusted r짼 values, 0.13-0.32). SDI had no particular relation to LV mass or to QRS duration.   CONCLUSIONS Children after HT have abnormal LV mechanics characterized by greater dyssynchrony and lower strain. These features correlate with, and possibly contribute to differences between measurements by 2DE and 3DE. EF should be calculated using 3DE in this population and others with dyssynchrony and regional strain abnormalities.
UNLABELLED There is currently great interest in measuring trainee competency at all levels of medical education. In 2007, we implemented a system for assessing cardiology fellows' progress in attaining imaging skills. This paradigm could be adapted for use by other cardiology programs.   METHODS Evaluation consisted of a two-part exercise performed after years 1 and 2 of pediatric cardiology training. Part 1: a directly observed evaluation of technical skills as fellows imaged a normal subject (year 1) and a patient with complex heart disease (year 2). Part 2: fellows interpreted and wrote reports for two echocardiograms illustrating congenital heart disease. These were graded for accuracy and facility with communicating pertinent data. After 5혻years of testing, fellows were surveyed about their experience. In 5혻years, 40 fellows were tested at least once. Testing identified four fellows who underperformed on the technical portion and four on the interpretive portion. Surveys were completed by 33 fellows (83혻%). Most (67혻%) felt that intermittent observation by faculty was inadequate for assessing skills and that procedural volume was a poor surrogate for competency (58혻%). Posttest feedback was constructive and valuable for 90, and 70혻% felt the process helped them set goals for skill improvement. Overall, fellows felt this testing was fair and should continue. Fellow performance and responses identified programmatic issues that were creating barriers to learning. We describe a practical test to assess competency for cardiology fellows learning echocardiography. This paradigm is feasible, has excellent acceptance among trainees, and identifies trainees who need support. Materials developed could be easily adapted to help track upcoming ACGME-mandated metrics.
UNLABELLED : An earthquake with a magnitude of 7.0 struck Lushan in Sichuan Province in China on April 20, 2013. Uniformed pediatricians visited the area where the epicenter was located to provide emergency relief care for children 10 days after the earthquake.   OBJECTIVES The aims of the study were to analyze the features of the disease spectrum of children in Baoxing at early time after Lushan earthquake and to provide basis information, which will be useful for the arrangement of the medical resources of pediatrics in the medical relief after Lushan earthquake in similar situation in the future.   METHODS A total of 220 case files were classified and analyzed. These files provided information regarding pediatric patients whose conditions were diagnosed and treated in the mobile hospital established by the Affiliated Hospital of Logistical University of Chinese People's Armed Police Forces in Baoxing from April 20, 2013 to April 30, 2013. The demographic data of all these patients were collected and the disease spectrum was analyzed.   RESULTS Children's ages differed. A total of 59 patients were neonates, infants, and toddlers (27%); 111 were school-aged children (50%) and 50 were adolescents (23%). Common diseases and injuries include respiratory tract infection, dermatosis, and trauma, which were observed 10 days after the earthquake. Trauma was mainly accidental injury. The morbidity rate of infectious diseases was low.   CONCLUSIONS Pediatricians have an important role in the early treatment and subsequent control of infectious diseases during earthquakes.
OBJECTIVES Applicants to fellowship programs are divided into the following 2 distinct groups: the external versus internal candidate. Internal fellowship candidates did residency at the same institution they are applying to, whereas the external candidate is from another institution. Internal candidates have likely done rotation(s) within the fellowship's division and are known to faculty, whereas the external candidates are evaluated by their applications and interviews alone. Acceptance of internal fellowship candidates may be complicated by competing interests of the associated residency program and overlapping faculty who have academic roles in both training programs. The current percentage of pediatric emergency medicine (PEM) fellowships exclusively using the National Resident Matching Program (NRMP) Specialties Matching Service (SMS) for filling fellowship slots is not known.   METHODS We surveyed all the current US PEM fellowship directors in April/May 2013 using a 15-question anonymous institutional review board-approved survey. This survey was hosted through http://www.surveymonkey.com and was available between April 08, 2013 and May 08, 2013. The unique link sent to each fellowship director recorded completion of the survey but no individual responses. All questions had to be answered for the results to be recorded.   RESULTS Fifty-four of 70 fellowship directors responded. Each question was individually evaluated. Fellowship directors had different feelings toward internal candidates. The NRMP-SMS exclusive use was high. Possible confounders using the NRMP match seemed uncommon.   CONCLUSIONS Twenty-nine percent of current PEM fellows are in training at the same institution where they completed their residency. Both internal and external candidates are valued by PEM fellowship directors. The exclusive use of the NRMP SMS is high and not confounded by internal factors.
OBJECTIVE The study sought to determine the impact of a pediatric behavioral health screening and colocation model on utilization of behavioral health care.   METHODS In 2003, Cambridge Health Alliance, a Massachusetts public health system, introduced behavioral health screening and colocation of social workers sequentially within its pediatric practices. An interrupted time-series study was conducted to determine the impact on behavioral health care utilization in the 30 months after model implementation compared with the 18 months prior. Specifically, the change in trends of ambulatory, emergency, and inpatient behavioral health utilization was examined. Utilization data for 11,223 children ages 4 years 9 months to <18 years 3 months seen from 2003 to 2008 contributed to the study.   RESULTS In the 30 months after implementation of pediatric behavioral health screening and colocation, there was a 20.4% cumulative increase in specialty behavioral health visit rates (trend of .013% per month, p=.049) and a 67.7% cumulative increase in behavioral health primary care visit rates (trend of .019% per month, p<.001) compared with the expected rates predicted by the 18-month preintervention trend. In addition, behavioral health emergency department visit rates increased 245% compared with the expected rate (trend .01% per month, p=.002).   CONCLUSIONS After the implementation of a behavioral health screening and colocation model, more children received behavioral health treatment. Contrary to expectations, behavioral health emergency department visits also increased. Further study is needed to determine whether this is an effect of how care was organized for children newly engaged in behavioral health care or a reflection of secular trends in behavioral health utilization or both.
PURPOSE The study of patient satisfaction is a rapidly emerging area of importance within health care. High levels of patient satisfaction are associated with exceptional physician-patient communication, superior patient compliance, reduced risk of medical malpractice, and economic benefit in the value-based purchasing era. To our knowledge, no previous reports have evaluated methods to improve the patient experience within the pediatric hematology-oncology (PHO) outpatient clinic.   METHODS Patient satisfaction was measured using returned Press-Ganey surveys at Blank Children's Hospital PHO outpatient clinic (UnityPoint Health). The aim of this study was to raise the overall patient satisfaction score to the 75th percentile and raise the care provider score (CP) to the 90th percentile nationally. After analyzing data from 2013, interventions were implemented in January 2014, including weekly review of returned surveys, review of goals and progress at monthly staff meetings, distribution of written materials addressing deficiencies, score transparency among providers, provider use of Web-based patient satisfaction training modules, devotion of additional efforts to address less satisfied demographics (new patient consultations), and more liberal use of service recovery techniques.   RESULTS In the PHO outpatient clinic, overall patient satisfaction improved from the 56th to 97th percentile. Care provider scores improved from the 70th to 99 th percentile. For new patients, overall satisfaction improved from the 27th to 92 nd percentile, and care provider scores improved from the 29th to 98 th percentile.   CONCLUSION Patient satisfaction was improved in a midsize PHO clinic by implementing provider- and staff-driven initiatives. A combination of minor behavioral changes among care providers and staff in conjunction with systems-related modifications drove improvement.
BACKGROUND Because of a lack of time and training, many pediatricians often address few, if any, injury topics during well-child visits. The project goal was to increase the injury anticipatory guidance topics covered by pediatricians during well-child visits by offering screening tools and focused talking points through a quality improvement learning collaborative.   METHODS Screening tools were developed and pretested. Pediatric practices, recruited through the Ohio American Academy of Pediatrics, were taught quality improvement theory and injury prevention strategies at a learning session. Pediatricians worked to implement screening tools and talking points into every well-child visit for children 1 year or younger. Monthly, providers reviewed five random charts for each of the six well-child visits for screening tool use and age-appropriate injury prevention discussion. Providers received maintenance of Certification IV credit.   RESULTS Sixteen pediatricians (six practices) participated. Screening tool use increased from 0% to 97.2% in just 3 months of the program. For each well-child care visit, injury prevention discussion increased by 89.5% for newborn visit, 88.1% for 2-month, 93.6% for 4-month, 94.0% for 6-month, 88.1% for 9-month, and 90.3% for 12-month-old babies. During the quality improvement program, discussion points for all children 1 year or younger increased for all age-appropriate topics. The greatest percent increase in discussions occurred with water safety (from 10.8% to 95.7%, n = 231), play safety (from 17.9% to 93.5%, n = 154), and supervision safety (from 20.8% to 94.4%, n = 251). More commonly addressed topics also had a significant increase in discussions: sleep safety (from 48% to 93.9%, n = 262), choking (from 44.7% to 95.4%, n = 172), and car safety (from 41.2% to 80.1%, n = 332).   CONCLUSION Participation in a maintenance of Certification IV quality improvement program within pediatric offices can increase screening and discussion of injury anticipatory guidance.   LEVEL OF EVIDENCE Therapeutic/care management study, level IV.
INTRODUCTION Research on complex health conditions such as neurodevelopmental disorders increasingly relies on large-scale research and clinical studies that would benefit from data sharing initiatives. Organizations that share data stand to maximize the efficiency of invested research dollars, expedite research findings, minimize the burden on the patient community, and increase citation rates of publications associated with the data.   OBJECTIVE This study examined ethics and governance information on websites of databases involving neurodevelopmental disorders to determine the availability of information on key factors crucial for comprehension of, and trust and participation in such initiatives.   METHODS We identified relevant databases identified using online keyword searches. Two researchers reviewed each of the websites and identified thematic content using principles from grounded theory. The content for each organization was interrogated using the gap analysis method.   RESULTS Sixteen websites from data sharing organizations met our inclusion criteria. Information about types of data and tissues stored, data access requirements and procedures, and protections for confidentiality were significantly addressed by data sharing organizations. However, special considerations for minors (absent from 63%), controls to check if data and tissues are being submitted (absent from 81%), disaster recovery plans (absent from 81%), and discussions of incidental findings (absent from 88%) emerged as major gaps in thematic website content. When present, content pertaining to special considerations for youth, along with other ethics guidelines and requirements, were scattered throughout the websites or available only from associated documents accessed through live links.   CONCLUSION The complexities of sharing data acquired from children and adolescents will only increase with advances in genomic and neuro science. Our findings suggest that there is a need to improve the consistency, depth and accessibility of governance and policies on which these collaborations can lean specifically for vulnerable young populations.
Medulloblastoma, the most common primary pediatric malignant brain tumor is a molecularly heterogeneous disease with different developmental origins, distinct phenotypes, diverse biological behaviour, and contrasting clinical outcomes. The current clinico-radiological risk-classification fails to take account of this heterogeneity and existent prognostic variability. It is widely accepted that dysregulation of normal developmental processes constitute a key mechanism of tumorigenesis in at least a subset of medulloblastomas. Several attempts at biological classification have successfully identified distinct subgroups with subgroup-specific gene signatures, demographics, histologic subtypes, and rates of metastases. Several research groups have classified medulloblastoma into molecular subgroups using a variety of different genomic approaches and platforms such as gene expression profiling, microRNA profiling and methylation arrays. Recently, a consensus has emerged that classifies medulloblastoma into four distinct molecular subgroups named as wingless (WNT), sonic hedgehog (SHH), Group 3 and Group 4 respectively. However, such integrative approaches have limited applicability in the clinic due to the need of fresh-frozen tissues and elaborate molecular biology tools. In parallel, some groups have proposed and validated traditional antibody-based approaches using immunohistochemistry on archival specimen for rapid and reliable molecular subgrouping to be applied in any basic neuropathology laboratory. Heterogeneity within each of these four consensus subgroups has also been demonstrated that needs to be considered in the design of future clinical trials. There is a compelling need to integrate molecular biomarkers with clinico-pathologic outcome indicators to refine risk-stratification as well as develop novel molecularly targeted agents for optimizing therapeutic index and personalizing therapy.
The surgical treatment of tetralogy of Fallot can be considered as a success story in the history of congenital heart diseases. Since the early outcome is no longer the main issue, the focus moved to the late sequelae of TOF repair, i.e. the pulmonary insufficiency and the secondary adaptation of the right ventricle. This review provides recent insights into the pathophysiological alterations of the right ventricle in relation to the reconstruction of the right ventricular outflow tract after repair of tetralogy of Fallot. Its clinical relevance is documented by addressing the policy changes regarding the optimal management at the time of surgical repair as well as properly defining criteria and timing for late pulmonary valve implantation.
PURPOSE We aimed to establish the first diagnostic reference levels (DRLs) for computed tomography (CT) examinations in adult and pediatric patients in Turkey and compare these with international DRLs.   METHODS CT performance information and examination parameters (for head, chest, high-resolution CT of the chest [HRCT-chest], abdominal, and pelvic protocols) from 1607 hospitals were collected via a survey. Dose length products and effective doses for standard patient sizes were calculated from the reported volume CT dose index (CTDIvol).   RESULTS The median number of protocols reported from the 167 responding hospitals (10% response rate) was 102 across five different age groups. Third quartile CTDIvol values for adult pelvic and all pediatric body protocols were higher than the European Commission standards but were comparable to studies conducted in other countries.   CONCLUSION The radiation dose indicators for adult patients were similar to those reported in the literature, except for those associated with head protocols. CT protocol optimization is necessary for adult head and pediatric chest, HRCT-chest, abdominal, and pelvic protocols. The findings from this study are recommended for use as national DRLs in Turkey.
Cardiac imaging in childhood poses significant challenges for the instrumentation and the operator. Small cardiac structures, high heart beat rates, non-compliant or sedated patients and in addition to the challenge of detecting acquired heart diseases, a broad spectrum of congenital heart defects (CHD) needs to be addressed, preferably without the burden of ionizing radiation. These challenges require not only accurate anatomical imaging but also a comprehensive assessment of hemodynamic and functional parameters for prognosis and risk stratification. With an incidence of 1% among all live births, CHDs are the most frequent form of congenital organ dysplasia. Advances in the diagnostics and treatment of even very complex forms of CHD lead to a higher number of patients requiring follow-up with cardiac imaging in childhood. As an example congenital defects, such as tetralogy of Fallot or valvular regurgitation need regular assessment of cardiac volumes and function. Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy requires recognition of fatty infiltration in the myocardium and in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy or myocarditis evidence of scar tissue or fibrosis portends a poor prognosis for the patient. For adequate assessment of the hemodynamics of complex CHD, the investigator must be aware of the patient's medical history in order to judge the course of the circulation that might diverge from the norm. A close knit cooperation and communication between all involved medical sub-specialties therefore needs to be guaranteed.
BACKGROUND Parental empowerment signifies parents' sense of confidence in managing their children, interacting with services that their children use and improving child care services. High empowerment is associated with parents' resilience to demands and their confidence to make decisions and take actions that positively affect their families. Most families with children access various healthcare and education services. Professionals working in these services are therefore ideally placed to reinforce parental empowerment. However, little is known about the characteristics associated with parental empowerment within a generic sample of parents or in the context of basic child care services.   AIM The aim of this study was to assess how family characteristics are associated with maternal and paternal empowerment in the family, in service situations and in the service system.   METHOD Parental empowerment was measured among 955 parents (mothers=571; fathers=384) of children aged 0-9뎫ears using the Generic Family Empowerment Scale. Family characteristics were assessed through questions on children, parents and the life situation. Associations between empowerment and family characteristics were evaluated using one-way analysis of variance and t-test. Parental empowerment was predicted by multiple linear regression analysis.   RESULTS Parents' concerns related to their parenting, such as whether they possessed sufficient skills as a parent or losing their temper with children, as well as experiences of stress in everyday life, were negatively associated with all dimensions of maternal and paternal empowerment. Both determinants were more common and more significant in empowerment than child-related problems.   CONCLUSION Promoting parental self-confidence and providing appropriate emotional and concrete support for everyday functioning may reinforce parental empowerment, thereby enhancing families' well-being and coping, as well as improving their access to required services and timely support. Finally, it may facilitate the provision of better services to all families.
The effect of 2004 Kawasaki disease (KD) guidelines on diagnosis and outcome of KD is lacking. We studied the epidemiology of KD in our region and compared the incidence, presentation, and outcome of KD before and after publication of the guidelines. A retrospective chart review was conducted for patients admitted with a diagnosis of KD. Demographics, laboratory data, and clinical data were collected. Comparison was made between 2 groups: prepublication (2000-2004) and postpublication (2005-2009) of guidelines. A total of 312 children were included; 64% were African American, 23% White, and 2% Asian; 61% were boys; 79% were complete KD, and 66% were in winter/spring. There was a significant increase in KD cases over the 11 years. There was no significant difference in clinical findings and outcome between the 2 groups. KD admissions in our region significantly increased during the postpublication period. There was no difference in clinical presentation, laboratory findings, or outcome between the 2 groups.
OBJECTIVE To obtain current data on practice patterns of the U.S. pediatric critical care medicine workforce.   DATA SOURCES Membership of the American Academy of Pediatrics Section on Critical Care and individuals certified by the American Board of Pediatrics in pediatric critical care medicine.   STUDY SELECTION All active members of the American Academy of Pediatrics Section on Critical Care, and nonduplicative individuals certified by the American Board of Pediatrics in pediatric critical care medicine, were classified as eligible to participate in this electronically administered workforce survey.   DATA EXTRACTION Data were extracted by a doctorate-level research professional. Extracted data included demographic information, work environment, number of hours worked, training, clinical responsibilities, work satisfaction and burnout, and plans to leave the practice of pediatric critical care medicine.   DATA SYNTHESIS Of 1,857 individuals contacted, 923 completed the survey (49.7%). The majority of respondents were white, male, non-Hispanic, university-employed, and taught residents. Respondents who worked full time were on clinical intensive care service for a median of 15뎩k/yr and responsible for a median of 13 ICU beds, working a median of 60뎗r/wk. Total night call responsibility was a median of 60 nights/yr; about half of respondents indicated night call was in-hospital. Fewer than half were engaged in basic science or clinical research. Compared with earlier data, there was minimal change in work hours and proportion of time devoted to research, but there was an increase in the proportion of female pediatric critical care medicine physicians.   CONCLUSIONS These data provide a description of the typical intensivist and a snapshot of the current pediatric critical care medicine workforce, which may be experiencing a mild-to-moderate undersupply. The results are useful for assessing the current workforce and valuable for future planning.
OBJECTIVE Ultrasound imaging has been shown to be beneficial for percutaneous central venous cannulation in systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials in adult patients, but not in pediatrics. The aim of this updated review was to determine whether percutaneous central venous catheterization with the aid of ultrasound reduces cannulation failure in children.   DATA SOURCES PubMed was searched using the terms: ultrasound, catheterization, central vein (including internal jugular and femoral veins), and pediatrics.   STUDY SELECTION Both nonrandomized comparative studies and randomized controlled trials were eligible for inclusion if they assessed the rate of cannulation failure using real-time, dynamic ultrasound guidance, ultrasound-assisted vein prelocation, and/or anatomic landmark technique.   DATA EXTRACTION Five nonrandomized studies and nine randomized controlled trials were included. The rates of cannulation failure and arterial puncture were retrieved.   DATA SYNTHESIS Random-effects meta-analysis was applied.   CONCLUSIONS The meta-analysis of five nonrandomized studies showed that the rate of cannulation failure was significantly lower with real-time ultrasound guidance than anatomic landmark technique (odds ratio, 0.44 [95% CI, 0.27-0.72]; p = 0.001). The combination of nine randomized controlled trials also showed lower failure rates with either the real-time ultrasound guidance or the prelocation technique over the landmark technique (odds ratio, 0.22 [95% CI, 0.07-0.69]; p = 0.0003) and fewer arterial punctures in the ultrasound group (odds ratio, 0.31 [95% CI, 0.09-1.08]; p = 0.07). However, seven out of nine studies were assessed as having high risk of bias. Since the lower cannulation failure and less frequent chance of arterial puncture with ultrasound were predominantly shown in studies at high risk of bias, further definitive and adequately powered studies with clear outcomes are needed.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends family-centered rounds (FCR) as standard practice for the inpatient setting. To date, there is limited research investigating the attitudes of pediatric patients regarding this shift in practice. The goal of this study was to explore pediatric patients' perspectives of their experiences during FCR.   METHODS We conducted a qualitative descriptive study based on results from 22 semi-structured interviews of school-aged and adolescent inpatients from September 2012 through October 2013. English-speaking patients, aged 7 to 18 years, who participated in FCR were eligible for inclusion. Transcripts were initially analyzed by using a constant comparative method. After completion of this initial analysis, a third reviewer independently reviewed all transcripts to verify the accuracy of the final coding scheme.   RESULTS The final coding scheme consisted of 5 main themes: team size, medical team interactions, content discussed on FCR, setting expectations, and timing and location of FCR. In general, patients expressed a wide array of positive, negative, and neutral impressions within each theme relating to their experiences with FCR.   CONCLUSIONS Patient comments regarding their experience with FCR offer unique perspectives from previously studied participants, including physicians, nurses, students, and parents. Future research aimed at evaluating the bedside rounding process should incorporate patients' views to realize the complete FCR experience.
OBJECTIVE To examine demographics and trends of financial cost and prominent diseases/conditions resulting in inpatient hospitalizations for infants, children, and adolescents in Texas between 2004 and 2010.   METHODS Longitudinal retrospective cross-sectional study using the Texas Hospital Inpatient Discharge Database, including all pediatric hospitalizations in the state of Texas, 2004 to 2010.   RESULTS Texas has an average of 591571 pediatric hospitalizations per year. Birth was the most common reason for hospitalization, representing 64% of all pediatric hospitalization annually in Texas. Respiratory illnesses were the most common discharge diagnosis for hospitalized children ages 1 month to 9 years and demonstrated a 2% decrease over the study period. The rate of hospitalizations for digestive conditions and childbirth also demonstrated a decrease over this time frame: 4.7% and 3.0%, respectively. The rate of mental illness diagnoses increased 2.5% over the time frame and represented the most common discharge diagnosis for children aged 10 to 14. Childbirth was the most common reason for hospitalization for adolescents aged 15 to 17 years. There was no increase in total cost of pediatric hospitalizations over the time period under study.   CONCLUSIONS After birth, respiratory illnesses represent the most common reason for hospitalization for children (between 1 month and 10 years of age) in Texas. Mental health conditions and childbirth represent the most common reason for hospitalization for young adolescents (10-14 years) and older adolescents (15-17 years), respectively.
BACKGROUND American Academy of Pediatrics guidelines emphasize regionalized systems of care for pediatric chronic illness. There remains a paucity of information on the status of regionalized systems of care for pediatric congenital heart disease (CHD).   OBJECTIVES This study evaluated variations in use of pediatric cardiology specialty care centers (PCSCC) for pediatric patients with CHD in California between 1983 and 2011.   METHODS We performed a retrospective, total population analysis of pediatric CHD patients using the California Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development unmasked database. PCSCCs were identified by California's Title V program.   RESULTS There were 164,310 discharges meeting inclusion criterion. Discharges from PCSCCs grew from 58% to 88% between 1983 and 2011. Regionalized care was highest for surgical (96%) versus nonsurgical (71%) admissions. Admissions with a public payer increased from 42% (1983) to 61% (2011). Total bed days nearly doubled, and median length of stay increased from 2 to 3 days (nonspecialty care) and from 4 to 5 days (specialty care). There was a decrease in the pediatric CHD in-hospital death rate from 5.1 to 2.3 per 100,000 between 1983 and 2011, and a shift toward a larger percent of deaths occurring in the newborn period.   CONCLUSIONS California's inpatient regionalized specialty care of pediatric CHD has increased substantially since 1983, especially for surgical CHD discharges. The death rate has decreased, the number of bed days has increased, and a large proportion of these discharges now have public payers. Health care reform efforts must consider these shifts while protecting advances in regionalization of pediatric CHD care.
BACKGROUND E-learning and blended learning approaches gain more and more popularity in emergency medicine curricula. So far, little data is available on the impact of such approaches on procedural learning and skill acquisition and their comparison with traditional approaches.   OBJECTIVE This study investigated the impact of a blended learning approach, including Web-based virtual patients (VPs) and standard pediatric basic life support (PBLS) training, on procedural knowledge, objective performance, and self-assessment.   METHODS A total of 57 medical students were randomly assigned to an intervention group (n=30) and a control group (n=27). Both groups received paper handouts in preparation of simulation-based PBLS training. The intervention group additionally completed two Web-based VPs with embedded video clips. Measurements were taken at randomization (t0), after the preparation period (t1), and after hands-on training (t2). Clinical decision-making skills and procedural knowledge were assessed at t0 and t1. PBLS performance was scored regarding adherence to the correct algorithm, conformance to temporal demands, and the quality of procedural steps at t1 and t2. Participants' self-assessments were recorded in all three measurements.   RESULTS Procedural knowledge of the intervention group was significantly superior to that of the control group at t1. At t2, the intervention group showed significantly better adherence to the algorithm and temporal demands, and better procedural quality of PBLS in objective measures than did the control group. These aspects differed between the groups even at t1 (after VPs, prior to practical training). Self-assessments differed significantly only at t1 in favor of the intervention group.   CONCLUSIONS Training with VPs combined with hands-on training improves PBLS performance as judged by objective measures.
INTRODUCTION This study aimed at assessing parents' knowledge and perception in relation to their child's condition when arriving at the emergency ward following an asthma attack. The overall objective was to determine how parent education could be improved.   MATERIALS AND METHODS This study was conducted over 9 months as a multicenter descriptive and qualitative study based on a self-administered questionnaire for parents of asthmatic children, aged 2-15 years.   RESULTS The questionnaire was delivered to 88 children out of 1472 (6%). Approximately 69% of the children included in the study presented with partially controlled or uncontrolled asthma. Fifty percent of the patients were insufficiently monitored and without therapy. Half of the parents said they had never received any information concerning their child's condition. The majority (86%) did not know the basic cause of the disease, 30% percent were unable to detect the features of clinical exacerbation, and 17% were not using an adequate emergency protocol. The illness experience was relatively easy for two-thirds of the children and the parents' perceptions were in line in 50% of the cases.   DISCUSSION Knowledge of parents and their children suffering from asthma is insufficient for optimal control and disease management. Instructions on detecting the signs of asthma severity as well as the establishment of an individualized emergency protocol and medical follow-up should be of prime concern and could reduce emergency department use.   CONCLUSION Doctors have a key role to play in educating and explaining disease characteristics to patients and their families. Therapeutic education also needs to be intensified.
OBJECTIVE To determine incidence of learning goals by competency area and to assess which goals fall into competency areas with lower self-assessment scores.   METHODS Cross-sectional analysis of existing deidentified American Academy of Pediatrics' PediaLink individualized learning plan data for the academic year 2009-2010. Residents self-assessed competencies in the 6 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) competency areas and wrote learning goals. Textual responses for goals were mapped to 6 ACGME competency areas, future practice, or personal attributes. Adjusted mean differences and associations were estimated using multiple linear and logistic regression.   RESULTS A total of 2254 residents reported 6078 goals. Residents self-assessed their systems-based practice (51.8) and medical knowledge (53.0) competencies lowest and professionalism (68.9) and interpersonal and communication skills (62.2) highest. Residents were most likely to identify goals involving medical knowledge (70.5%) and patient care (50.5%) and least likely to write goals on systems-based practice (11.0%) and professionalism (6.9%). In logistic regression analysis adjusting for postgraduate year (PGY), gender, and degree type (MD/DO), resident-reported goal area showed no association with the learner's relative self-assessment score for that competency area. In the conditional logistic regression analysis, with each learner serving as his or her own control, senior residents (PGY2/3+s) who rated themselves relatively lower in a competency area were more likely to write a learning goal in that area than were PGY1s.   CONCLUSIONS Senior residents appear to develop better skills and/or motivation to explicitly turn self-assessed learning gaps into learning goals, suggesting that individualized learning plans may help improve self-regulated learning during residency.
OBJECTIVE To understand how primary care providers (PCPs) perceive barriers to adolescent depression care to inform strategies to increase treatment engagement.   STUDY DESIGN We conducted semistructured interviews with 15 PCPs recruited from community pediatric offices with access to integrated behavioral health services (ie, low system-level barriers to care) who participated in a larger study on treating adolescent depression. Interviews addressed PCP perceptions of barriers to adolescents' uptake of care for depression. Interviews were audiorecorded, transcribed, and coded for key themes.   RESULTS Although PCPs mentioned several adolescent barriers to care, they thought parents played a critical role in assisting adolescents in accessing mental health services. Important aspects of the parental role in accessing treatment included transportation, financial support, and social support. PCPs perceived that parental unwillingness to accept the depression diagnosis, family dysfunction, and trauma were common barriers. PCPs contrasted this with examples of good family support they believed would enable adolescents to attend follow-up appointments and have a 'life coach' at home to help monitor for side effects and watch for increased suicidality when starting antidepressants.   CONCLUSIONS In this PCP population, which had enhanced access to mental health specialists, PCPs primarily reported attitudinal barriers to adolescent depression treatment, focusing mainly on perceived parent barriers. The results of these qualitative interviews provide a framework for understanding PCP perceptions of parental barriers to care, identifying that addressing complex parental barriers to care may be important for future interventions.
OBJECTIVE To evaluate the quality of the Mexican Board of Pediatric Surgery (MBPS) certifying system, using contemporary international guidelines.   DESIGN Retrospective assessment of evidence collected during the design and implementation processes of 2 consecutive applications of the MBPS certifying examination, using Cizek's checklist for evaluating credential-testing programs. It includes the relevant guidelines from the American Education Research Association, the American Psychological Association, the National Council on Measurement in Education, and the National Commission for Certifying Agencies. Four independent and previously trained raters used the checklist. They underwent a 2-week training using frame-of-reference and performance dimensions methodologies.   SETTING Certification examinations of MBPS.   POPULATION The 2013 and 2014 MBPS certification examinations, with 111 evidence items of the processes, followed for the assessment of 86 examinees.   RESULTS The checklist internal consistency was 0.89. Absolute interrater agreement was 0.34 for the 2013 and 0.66 for the 2014 editions of the examination. The 2013 examination complied with 55 (64%) of the checklist 86 items, in 2014 with 72 (84%).   CONCLUSION In 2014, the certifying system reached a quality of 84%. For optimal fulfillment of its social responsibility, the MBPS is required to maintain its level of quality and attempt to improve its performance.
AIM The purpose of the study was to evaluate the efficacy of the guidelines on oral health published by the Italian Health Ministry.   MATERIALS AND METHODS    STUDY DESIGN 1239 patients (582 girls and 657 boys) with a mean age of 4.46 (SD 2.81) years were evaluated before application of the guidelines by paediatricians (T0) for the presence of caries, gingivitis, diseases of the oral mucosa, and malocclusion. Only patients aged 6 months, 3 years, 6 years, and 9 years at T0 were taken into consideration. All patients were reevaluated after application of the ministerial guidelines (T1).   METHODS the study took place over a 3-year period. Enrolled patients referred to the outpatient clinics of three paediatricians of the Province of Genoa who strictly applied the ministerial guidelines.   STATISTICS Chi square test analysis was performed to evaluate a statistically significant decrease in the incidence of caries, gingivitis and diseases of the oral mucosa.   RESULTS After a 3-year follow-up collected data underlined a statistically significant decrease in the incidence of dental caries, gingivitis and oral mucosal diseases after implementation of the recommended ministerial guidelines. A statistically significant decrease of malocclusions was also evident in the elder patients (12 years old at T1).   CONCLUSION The accurate implementation of the Guidelines is supported. Only collaboration and increased synergy between paedodontists and paediatricians can fulfill the objectives which were the reason for publishing the 'National guidelines for the promotion of oral health and the prevention of oral diseases in developmental age'.
April 2015 marks the publication of the first national guideline regarding point-of-care ultrasound by pediatric emergency medicine physicians. The joint statement by the American Academy of Pediatrics, Society for Academic Emergency Medicine, American College of Emergency Physicians, and World Interactive Network Focused on Critical Ultrasound provides a framework on which pediatric emergency physicians can develop the necessary skills to use point-of-care ultrasound effectively and responsibly.
BACKGROUND Historically, children have been excluded from clinical research. Many drugs and procedures have not been tested on children. The International Conference on Harmonization and the Food and Drug Administration guidance now stress that children should be included in research unless there is a reason for exclusion. Compared to adults, recruitment of children at different life stages requires different considerations.   OBJECTIVE To review published studies and gray literature to identify pediatric recruitment strategies and develop recommendations.   RESULTS There is limited clinical research literature available to recommend recruitment strategies and methods for pediatric trials. Formal guidelines for reporting recruitment activities in publications are scant. Recommendations are made based on current practices regarding protocol design, obtaining consent and engaging child, parent and caregiver in research.   CONCLUSIONS A scientific approach is needed to determine the best design for recruitment of pediatric clinical studies. Investigators should report and publish recruitment and retention strategies that facilitate this important aspect of the research process to increase transparency, efficiency, and identification of the most effective methods for dental researchers.
INTRODUCTION With continued improvements in pediatric urology care of patients with complex congenital genitourinary conditions, many survive into adulthood. This fact has created a challenging situation of transitioning from pediatric to adult care. Establishing long-term follow-up with appropriate specialists is a critical part of a successful transition to adulthood for this population.   OBJECTIVE This study sought to elucidate current practices and opinions regarding the management of adult complex genitourinary patients by pediatric urologists, in order to determine if a consensus for adult care exists.   STUDY DESIGN An anonymous, 15-question online survey was created to address practice patterns and opinions regarding the transition of care of complex genitourinary patients. An invitation to participate was distributed via email to 200 pediatric urologists who were members of the American Urological Association. Complex genitourinary patients were defined broadly as those with a history of: spina bifida, bladder exstrophy, cloacal exstrophy, cloacal anomalies, posterior urethral valves or disorders of sex development. Fisher's exact test was used for analysis.   RESULTS The response rate was 31.0% (62/200). Two-thirds (67.7%) cared for adults with complex genitourinary conditions. Overall, 51.6% of pediatric urologists felt that general urologists best follow adult patients, but only 6.5% recommended this for patients with prior complex genitourinary reconstruction (P < 0.001). Instead, the majority (80.6%) felt that a pediatric or adult urologist with an interest and training in adolescent/transitional urology who routinely performs such procedures would provide optimal care. Follow-up by a primary care physician alone was not recommended. Recommendations did not change if patients had developmental delay or lived independently (P = 0.47 and P = 0.72, respectively). Overall, 69.4% would refer mature complex genitourinary patients to a urologist with interest and training in adolescent/transitional urology, if one was available. However, only 45.2% had such an individual available in their practice (P < 0.001).   DISCUSSION In the present study, the opinions of pediatric urologists regarding optimal providers of long-term follow-up for mature complex genitourinary patients were presented. While the results may not represent the views of the entire pediatric urology community, responses from motivated individuals with a particular interest in transition care may be especially valuable. Although the present study did not outline a mechanism for improving transitional care, it offered valuable information on prevailing opinions in this area. Finally, the opinions of mostly North American Pediatric Urologists were presented, which may not apply to other healthcare settings.   CONCLUSIONS Pediatric urologists appeared to be virtually unanimous in recommending that urologists provide the most appropriate long-term follow-up of patients with congenital genitourinary conditions. Specifically, 80% recommended that patients with prior complex surgical reconstruction be followed by a urologist with specific interest, training and experience in the area of transitional urology. The data suggest that this may be an unmet need of these specialists and may signify the need for specific training in the care of such patients.
Epidemiological data suggests suicide is uncommon in childhood but becomes an extremely serious issue among adolescents.Several risk factors have been identified and include the presence of psychiatric illness, a previous suicide attempt, family factors, substance abuse, sexual and physical abuse, disorders in gender identity or bullying. Pediatricians have a primary role in searching for these risk factors, recognizing them and acting synergistically with other specialists to prevent and treat suicidal behavior.Pediatricians should also be able to identify the 'warning signs' for suicide since their presence implies a need for immediate action, as attempted suicide may occur in a few hours or days.The use of antidepressant drugs and its association with suicidal risk in pediatric age is another topic of ongoing debate. Food and Drug Administration has recently introduced the so-called 'black box' on antidepressants' packages with the aim of gaining attention to the possible risk of suicide among adolescents who are treated with antidepressants, with a warning that the risk of suicide is higher when starting a therapy or while adjusting its dosage.
BACKGROUND Educators in anesthesia have an obligation to ensure that fellowship programs are training anesthesiologists to meet the highest standards of performance in clinical and academic practice. The objective of this survey was to characterize the perspectives of graduates of Canadian core fellowship programs in pediatric anesthesia (during a ten-year period starting in 2003) on the adequacies and inadequacies of fellowship training.   METHODS We conducted an electronic survey of graduates from eight departments of pediatric anesthesia in Canada who completed one-year core fellowship training in pediatric anesthesia from 2003혻to혻2013. A novel survey design was implemented, and the content and structure of the design were tested before distribution. Data were collected on respondents' demographics, details of training and practice settings, perceived self-efficacy in subspecialty practices, research experience, and perspectives on one-year core fellowship training in pediatric anesthesia. Descriptive statistics and 95% confidence intervals were determined.   RESULTS The survey was sent to 132 anesthesiologists who completed core fellowship training in pediatric anesthesia in Canada. Sixty-five (49%) completed and eligible surveys were received. Most of the anesthesiologists surveyed perceived that 12 months of core fellowship training are sufficient to acquire the knowledge and critical skills needed to practice pediatric anesthesia. Subspecialty areas most frequently perceived to require improved training included pediatric cardiac anesthesia, chronic pain medicine, and regional anesthesia.   CONCLUSIONS This survey reports perceived deficiencies in domains of pediatric anesthesia fellowship training. These findings should help guide the future development of core and advanced fellowship training programs in pediatric anesthesia.
INTRODUCTION Care guidelines can improve the quality of care by making current evidence available in a concise format. Emergency departments (EDs) are an ideal site for guidelines given the wide variety of presenting conditions and treating providers, and the need for timely decision making. We designed a programme for guideline development and implementation and evaluated its impact in an ED.   METHODS The setting was an urban paediatric ED with an annual volume of 60000. Common and/or high-risk conditions were identified for guideline development. Following implementation of the guidelines, their impact on effectiveness of care, patient outcomes, efficiency and equitability of care was assessed using a web-based provider survey and performance on identified metrics. Variation in clinical care between providers was assessed using funnel plots.   RESULTS Eleven (11) guidelines were developed and implemented. 3 years after the initiation of the programme, self-reported adherence to recommendations was high (95% for physicians and 89% for nurses). 97% of physicians and 92% of nurses stated that the programme improved the quality of care in the ED. For some guidelines, provider-to-provider care practice variation was reduced significantly. We found reduced disparity in imaging when assessing one guideline. There were also reductions in utilisation of diagnostic tests or therapies. As a balancing measure, the percentage of patients with any of the guideline conditions who returned to the ED within 72꿫 of discharge did not change from before to after guideline initiation. Overall, 80% of physician and 56% of nurse respondents rated the guideline programme at the highest value.   CONCLUSIONS A programme for guideline development and implementation helped to improve efficiency, and standardise and eliminate disparities in emergency care without jeopardising patient outcomes.
Pediatric lung diseases are a common clinical problem. Besides the clinical examination and laboratory tests, imaging studies are the mainstay in the diagnostics of pediatric lung diseases. Thorough consideration of radiation protection based on optimized equipment also includes the protection of relatives and medical staff. The high impact of radiation protection in children necessitates a different choice of imaging modalities compared to adults. Ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as adjunct or complementary imaging methods are of greater value than computed tomography (CT). The suspicion of pneumonia is the most common reason for chest imaging examinations in children. An anteroposterior or posteroanterior view chest X-ray is sufficient in most cases and sometimes in combination with ultrasound. The latter can also be used alone for follow-up examinations if the clinical presentation does not change. Additionally, ultrasound is applied to examine unclear structures seen on chest X-rays, such as the thymus or pulmonary sequestration in adjunct with color-coded duplex sonography. A chest X-ray is also the method of choice to examine the various forms of respiratory distress syndrome, such as wet lung disease or surfactant deficiency syndrome in newborns. Fluoroscopy is used in older children with suspected ingestion and/or aspiration of foreign bodies and CT is mostly used for staging and follow-up of thoracic and pulmonary structures in pediatric oncology. Recent technical advances, e.g. iterative reconstruction, have dramatically reduced the CT dosage. Apart from some indications (e.g. tumors and sequestration) MRI is rarely used in children; however, its potential for functional analyses (e.g. perfusion and ventilation) may increase the application in the near future.
OBJECTIVE To determine the prevalence and type of the clinical safety problems contained in the complaints made by patients and users in Primary Care.   MATERIAL AND METHODS An observational, descriptive, cross-sectional study was conducted by analysing both the complaint forms and the responses given to them in the period of one year.   RESULTS At least 4.6% of all claims analysed in this study contained clinical safety problems. The family physician is the professional who received the majority of the complaints (53.6%), and the main reason was the problems related to diagnosis (43%), mainly the delay in diagnosis. Other variables analysed were the severity of adverse events experienced by patients (in 68% of cases the patient suffered some harm), the subsequent impact on patient care, which was affected in 39% of cases (7% of cases even requiring hospital admission), and the level of preventability of adverse events (96% avoidable) described in the claims. Finally the type of response issued to each complaint was analysed, being purely bureaucratic in 64% of all cases.   CONCLUSIONS Complaints are a valuable source of information about the deficiencies identified by patients and healthcare users. There is considerable scope for improvement in the analysis and management of claims in general, and those containing clinical safety issues in particular. To date, in our area, there is a lack of appropriate procedures for processing these claims. Likewise, we believe that other pathways or channels should be opened to enable communication by patients and healthcare users.
Because the patents for biopharmaceutical monoclonal antibodies have or soon will expire, biosimilars are coming to the market. This will most likely lead to decreased drug costs and so easier access to these expensive agents. Extrapolation, however, of the limited available clinical data from adults with rheumatologic diseases to children with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) should be done with caution and needs some considerations.Postmarketing surveillance programs for efficacy, safety, and immunogenicity should become mandatory in children with IBD using biosimilars, as for all biological drugs.
Nola is a complicated 22-month (19-mo corrected) former 34-week premature girl who presents to your practice in the company of her foster caretaker, a maternal aunt. The history you have comes mostly through the lens of her aunt's recall of a variety of clinical encounters and emergency room visits that have taken place at 2 of the region's tertiary care centers, including a prolonged recent hospitalization for failure to thrive. Regrettably, you have no discharge summary on hand from the outside institution.Fortunately, Nola's aunt has come prepared. From her notes, you learn that Nola has a history of feeding difficulties and 'global developmental delay.' The details of Nola's prenatal and neonatal intensive care unit admission are scant. Nola has been described as having 'unusual facial features, such as smallish eyes, low tone, some vision problems.' A physical examination demonstrates significant delays in all streams of development. Nola's aunt recalls that she may need a gastrostomy tube pending her weight gain in the next few months.At present, Nola's aunt/foster caretaker is caring for her at home and expresses her concern about 4 major areas: coordinating multiple appointments at various sites, keeping track of involved medical information, getting all of the 'paperwork' done to get needed upgrades for a feeding chair, and buying expensive special formula with her own money. Nola's aunt is intelligent and motivated, but she has limited help at home and is overwhelmed with all the aspects of the care. The aunt acknowledges the importance of multiple appointments-feeding support, developmental evaluations, vision, and neurologic assessments. When you inquire who Nola's aunt identifies as her niece's primary care provider, she reports that she has seen different doctors due to the vagaries of her schedule.You conclude that Nola's situation is not likely to improve without a dramatic intervention. As you try to pull together a plan, you wonder what the most effective approach is for the busy clinician. Who should take the lead on a child's care? Can a primary care pediatric clinician partner with other specialists and programs and use other members of a care team effectively? And, does care coordination provide better more cost-effective care?
OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a syndrome frequently diagnosed in children; however, it lacks optimal diagnostic methods. This study aimed to provide a clinical decision rule for predicting pediatric OSA using commonly available clinical information.   STUDY DESIGN A prospective cohort study.   METHODS Children between the ages of 3 to 6 years-old, referred for an otorhinolaryngology consultation due to clinical suspicion of OSA, were recruited from January to June 2014. At baseline age, weight, height, gender, body mass index, Pediatric Sleep Questionnaire (PSQ) scores, tonsil size, and oxygen desaturation index (ODI) were assessed. A logistic regression modeling was used with backward stepwise elimination to develop a prediction model.   RESULTS Sixty-seven children were included with a mean age of 4.51 years. Of the 67 children included in this study, 25 (37.3%) subjects were diagnosed with pediatric OSA. Significant predictors of pediatric OSA in the final model (odds ratio, 95% confidence interval) included PSQ score (5.12; 3.3-6.5), ODI (1.34; 1.0-1.79) and tonsil size (6.7; 3.22-9.75). The final decision rule had a sensitivity of 88% and a specificity of 86%. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.897.   CONCLUSION The proposed clinical decision rule, based on three readily available variables, is a promising discriminating instrument for prediction of OSA among children between 3 and 6 years.   LEVEL OF EVIDENCE 2b.
As pediatric imaging capabilities have increased in scope, so have the complexities of providing procedural sedation in this environment. While efforts by many organizations have dramatically increased the safety of pediatric procedural sedation in general, radiology sedation creates several special challenges for the sedation provider. These challenges require implementation of additional safeguards to promote safety during sedation while maintaining effective and efficient care. Multiple agent options are available, and decisions regarding which agent(s) to use should be determined by both patient needs (i.e., developmental capacities, underlying health status, and previous experiences) and procedural needs (i.e., duration, need for immobility, and invasiveness). Increasingly, combinations of agents to either achieve the conditions required or mitigate/counterbalance adverse effects of single agents are being utilized with success. To continue to provide effective imaging sedation, it is incumbent on sedation providers to maintain familiarity with continuing evolutions within radiology environments, as well as comfort and competence with multiple sedation agents/regimens. This review discusses the challenges associated with radiology sedation and outlines various available agent options and combinations, with the intent of facilitating appropriate matching of agent(s) with patient and procedural needs.
BACKGROUND Despite the medical benefits of CT, there are concerns about increased cancer risks following CT scans in childhood.   OBJECTIVE To assess Australian temporal trends in pediatric CT scans funded through Medicare over the period 1985 to 2005, as well as changes in the types of CT scanners used.   MATERIALS AND METHODS We studied de-identified electronic records of Medicare-funded services, including CT scans, that were available for children and adults younger than 20혻years between 1985 and 2005. We assessed temporal trends using CT imaging rates by age, gender and anatomical region. Regulators provided CT scanner registration lists to identify new models installed in Australia and to date the introduction of new technologies.   RESULTS Between 1985 and 2005, 896,306 Medicare-funded CT services were performed on 688,260 individuals younger than 20혻years. The imaging rate more than doubled during that time period. There were more than 1,000 CT scanners on registration lists during the study period. There were both a sharp increase in the availability of helical scanning capabilities from 1994 and significant growth in multi-detector CT scanners from 2000.   CONCLUSION Significant increases in the rate of pediatric CT scanning have occurred in Australia. This rate has stabilized since 2000, possibly a result of better understanding of cancer risks.
PURPOSE One hospital's implementation of revised American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) guidelines for palivizumab prophylaxis of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection is described.   METHODS Revised AAP guidelines for RSV prophylaxis in infants and young children at increased risk for RSV infection recommend that up to five doses of palivizumab be administered during the RSV season. The guidelines also recommend that inpatients not receive monthly palivizumab prophylaxis and that infants and young children eligible for prophylaxis during the RSV season receive a dose of palivizumab two or three days before discharge or promptly after discharge. To ensure compliance with the revised AAP guidelines, a 296-bed hospital implemented a quality-improvement project including (1) efforts by the antimicrobial stewardship pharmacist and the chief medical officer to notify and educate healthcare providers regarding institutional adoption of the guidelines, (2) reinforcement of guideline adherence by clinical pharmacists during daily bedside rounds and via prospective review of all palivizumab orders, and (3) a medication-use evaluation (MUE) to assess adherence to the guidelines. The MUE results showed that during the 2014-15 RSV season (after implementation of the practice changes), the number of palivizumab doses administered at the hospital declined by 56% from the previous RSV season, with 97% of doses administered for appropriate indications.   CONCLUSION Standardized, comprehensive guidelines with defined criteria for palivizumab prophylaxis of RSV infection resulted in $303,227 of cost savings without a discernible change in nosocomial transmission, or morbidity, or mortality. Hospital infection-control practices controlled nosocomial RSV transmission.
INTRODUCTION Although research has shown that professional interpreters improve health care to patients who do not speak the same language as their care provider, care providers underuse professional interpretation services. To get more insight into the reasons of care providers to underuse professional interpreters, we studied fallacies in their arguments. Fallacies in reasoning may explain why care providers avoid changing their behavior even if they are aware of evidence in favor of such behavior.   METHODS We did a secondary analysis of interviews about immigrant patients with care providers collected in two studies on in-hospital pediatric care. Interviews (N = 37) were held in 2009, in the Netherlands. Interviews were analyzed using a contextual approach to fallacious argumentation: a method that can identify fallacies as 'wrong' arguments compared with the context in they are made.   RESULTS We identified six main fallacies that care providers used to argue that they prefer not to use a professional interpreter while having free access to professional interpreters: 1) There are also some negative side effects to using professional interpreters, 2) there is no language problem, 3) it is such an enormous hassle to organize it, 4) I am a good doctor, 5) my medical information is not complex, and 6) patients do not want it.   DISCUSSION Familiarizing care providers with these fallacies can raise their awareness of the wrong arguments to defend their underuse of professional interpreters and can be made part of their training.
BACKGROUND Pediatric hospitalists are increasingly involved in the clinical management of children with medical complexity (CMC), specifically those with neurologic impairment and technology dependence. Clinical care guidelines and educational resources on management of the diseases and devices prevalent in CMC are scarce. The objective of this study was to develop and evaluate a web-based curriculum on care of CMC for hospitalists at our institution using a novel approach to validate educational content.   METHODS Junior faculty collaborated with senior hospitalist peer mentors to create multimedia learning modules on highly-desired topics as determined by needs assessment. Module authors were encouraged to work with subspecialty experts from within the institution and to submit their modules for external peer review. Pilot study participants were asked to complete all modules, associated knowledge tests, and evaluations over a 4-month period.   RESULTS Sixteen of 33 eligible hospitalists completed the curriculum and associated assessments. High scores with respect to satisfaction were seen across all modules. There was a significant increase in posttest knowledge scores (P < 0.001) with sustained retention at 6 months posttest (P < 0.013). Participants were most likely to make changes to their teaching and clinical practice based on participation in this curriculum.   CONCLUSIONS We used a novel approach for content development in this curriculum that incorporated consultation with experts and external peer review, resulting in improved knowledge, high satisfaction, and behavior change. Our approach may be a useful method to improve content validity for educational resources on topics that do not have established clinical care guidelines.
TRANSFORMING CARE has become a buzz phrase in the health service. Since NHS England's Five-Year Forward View was published in autumn 2014 a great deal of interest has been expressed in changing services to improve care and save money.
As part of a mandate to provide continuing professional development (CPD) for paediatricians in western Sweden and to support patient safety, we have addressed the professional demands which are imposed on today's consultant paediatricians on call, by designing and implementing a CPD programme for this group. Learning objectives for specific learning modules were developed from a pre-course needs assessment among consultants. The implemented programme included a variety of learning, assessment and evaluation methods. Each specific learning module began with a reading assignment exploring the key concept. This prepared the participants for the case discussion, in which they would analyse, reflect and achieve a deeper level of understanding. We believe that the educational methods used and the approach of the programme are applicable to specialist training as well as to CPD programmes in general, as part of a lifelong learning process.
BACKGROUND In 2003, work-hour regulations were implemented by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education. Much has been published regarding resident rest and quality of life as well as patient safety. There has been no examination on the effect of work-hour restrictions on academic productivity of fellows in training. Paediatric subspecialty fellows have a scholarly requirement mandated by the American Board of Pediatrics. We have examined the impact of work-hour restrictions on the scholarly productivity of paediatric cardiology fellows during their fellowship.   METHODS We conducted a literature search for all paediatric cardiology fellows between 1998 and 2007 at a single academic institution as first or senior authors on papers published during their 3-year fellowship and 3 years after completion of their categorical fellowship (n=63, 30 fellows before 2003 and 33 fellows after 2003). The numbers of first- or senior-author fellow publications before and after 2003 were compared. We also collected data on final paediatric cardiology subspecialty career choice.   RESULTS There was no difference in the number of fellow first-author publications before and after 2003. Before work-hour restrictions, the mean number of publications per fellow was 2.1 (짹2.2), and after work-hour restrictions it was 2.0 (짹1.8), (p=0.89). By subspecialty career choice, fellows who select electrophysiology, preventative cardiology, and heart failure always published within the 6-year time period.   CONCLUSIONS Since the implementation of work-hour regulations, total number of fellow first-authored publications has not changed. The role of subspecialty choice may play a role in academic productivity of fellows in training.
OBJECTIVES To evaluate a scheduled interprofessional huddle among pediatric residents, nursing staff, and cardiologists on the number of high-risk transfers to the ICU.   METHODS A daily, night-shift huddle intervention was initiated between the in-house pediatric residents and nursing staff covering the cardiology ward patients with the at-home attending cardiologist. Retrospective cohort chart review identified high-risk transfers from the inpatient floor to the ICU over a 24-month period (eg, inotropic support, intubation, and/or respiratory support within 1 hour of ICU transfer). Satisfaction with the intervention and the impact of the intervention on team-based communication and resident education was collected using a retrospective pre-post survey.   RESULTS Ninety-three patients were identified as unscheduled transfers from the ward team to the ICU. Overall, 21 preintervention transfers were considered high risk, whereas only 8 patients were considered high risk after the intervention (P=.004). During the night shift, high risk transfers decreased from 8 of 17 (47%) to 3 of 21 patients (14%) (P=.03). Interprofessional communication improved with 12 of 14 nurses and 24 of 25 residents reporting effective communication after the intervention (P<.0001) compared with only 1 nurse and 15 residents reporting a positive experience before the intervention. Overall, all 3 provider groups stated an improved experience covering a high-risk cardiology patient population.   CONCLUSIONS Implementation of an interprofessional huddle may contribute to decreasing high-risk transfers to the ICU. Initiating a daily huddle was well received and allowed for open lines of communication across all provider groups.
Outcome analysis is essential to health care quality improvement efforts. Pediatric anesthesia faces unique challenges in analyzing outcomes. Anesthesia most often involves a one-time point of care interaction where work flow precludes detailed feedback to care givers. In addition, pediatric outcome evaluations must take into account patients' age, development, and underlying illnesses when attempting to establish benchmarks. The deployment of electronic medical records, including preoperative, operative, and postoperative data, offers an opportunity for creating datasets large and inclusive enough to overcome these potential confounders. At our institution, perioperative data exist in five distinct environments. In this study, we describe a method to integrate these datasets into a single web-based relational database that provides researchers and clinicians with regular anesthesia outcome data that can be reviewed on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis. Because of its complexity, the project also entailed the creation of a 'dashboard,' allowing tracking of data trends and rapid feedback of measured metrics to promote and sustain improvements. We present the first use of such a database and dashboard for pediatric anesthesia professionals as well as successfully demonstrating its capabilities to perform as described above.
BACKGROUND Parents facing the death of their child have a strong need for compassionate professional support. Care services should be based on empirical evidence, be sensitive to the needs of the families concerned, take into account the heterogeneity within the medical field of paediatrics, and fit into the local health care system. We need to better understand the perspectives of parents facing the death of their child in order to guide further development and evaluation of specialised paediatric palliative and end-of-life (EOL) care services.   METHODS Questionnaire survey to assess the EOL care perspectives of a Swiss population-based sample of bereaved parents who had lost a child due to a cardiac, neurological or oncological condition, or during the neonatal period in the years 2011 or 2012. The parental perspective was assessed with a newly developed and tested instrument that was structured according to six evidence-based quality domains. Responses regarding parental experiences and perceived satisfaction are described. Differences between the four diagnostic groups are analysed using a generalized estimation equation to account for the dyadic data structure.   RESULTS Of 307 eligible families, 267 could be contacted and 135 (51%) consented to participate in this questionnaire survey. Our findings show positive parental experiences of their child's EOL care and high perceived satisfaction with the care their child received. Parents of a child with cancer rated their experiences highest in most of the six quality domains and reported the highest satisfaction with care. The lowest scores were mainly reported by parents from the neurology group, with the exception of the shared decision making domain, where parents of neonates reported significantly less positive experiences.   CONCLUSIONS Although positive in general, our study results suggest some areas for improvement. The integration of specialised paediatric palliative care has the potential to minimise lost opportunities to support and assist parents.
The evolution and development of pediatric cardiac critical care as a distinct subspecialty have occurred rapidly over the past 20 years. As the field has grown, models for education, training, and care delivery have changed as well. This review will highlight the current state of education, training, and parental involvement in care delivery for pediatric cardiac critical care as initially.
BACKGROUND High-fidelity simulation using patient-specific three-dimensional (3D) models may be effective in facilitating pediatric cardiac intensive care unit (PCICU) provider training for clinical management of congenital cardiac surgery patients.   METHODS The 3D-printed heart models were rendered from preoperative cross-sectional cardiac imaging for 10 patients undergoing congenital cardiac surgery. Immediately following surgical repair, a congenital cardiac surgeon and an intensive care physician conducted a simulation training session regarding postoperative care utilizing the patient-specific 3D model for the PCICU team. After the simulation, Likert-type 0 to 10 scale questionnaire assessed participant perception of impact of the training session.   RESULTS Seventy clinicians participated in training sessions, including 22 physicians, 38 nurses, and 10 ancillary care providers. Average response to whether 3D models were more helpful than standard hand off was 8.4 of 10. Questions regarding enhancement of understanding and clinical ability received average responses of 9.0 or greater, and 90% of participants scored 8 of 10 or higher. Nurses scored significantly higher than other clinicians on self-reported familiarity with the surgery (7.1 vs. 5.8; P = .04), clinical management ability (8.6 vs. 7.7; P = .02), and ability enhancement (9.5 vs. 8.7; P = .02). Compared to physicians, nurses and ancillary providers were more likely to consider 3D models more helpful than standard hand off (8.7 vs. 7.7; P = .05). Higher case complexity predicted greater enhancement of understanding of surgery (P = .04).   CONCLUSION The 3D heart models can be used to enhance congenital cardiac critical care via simulation training of multidisciplinary intensive care teams. Benefit may be dependent on provider type and case complexity.
Although pediatric pulmonary thromboembolism is historically believed to be rare with relatively little information available in the medical literature regarding its imaging evaluation, it is more common than previously thought. Thus, it is imperative for radiologists to be aware of the most recent advances in its imaging information, particularly multidetector computed tomography (MDCT), the imaging modality of choice in the pediatric population. The overarching goal of this article is to review the most recent updates on MDCT diagnosis of pediatric pulmonary thromboembolism.
Pediatric pancreatitis has received much attention during the past few years. The incidence of acute pancreatitis in children has increased over the past 20 years. Therefore, acute pancreatitis should be considered during the differential diagnosis of abdominal pain in children. The etiological factors are different than in adults and, in recent reports, a wide range of potential causes has been associated with acute pancreatitis in children. The most common etiology of acute pancreatitis in children are biliary duct disorders, drugs, systemic diseases, trauma and also genetic factors. More than one third of the cases is idiopathic. The good knowledge of etiological factors is very useful in the planning of the adequate diagnostic procedures. The finding of the proper cause allow us to start appropriate treatment.
The transition to competency-based medical education (CBME) and adoption of the foundational domains of competence by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC), and American Board of Medical Specialties' certification and maintenance of certification (MOC) programs provided an unprecedented opportunity for the pediatrics community to create a model of learning and assessment across the continuum. Two frameworks for assessment in CBME have been promoted: (1) entrustable professional activities (EPAs) and (2) milestones that define a developmental trajectory for individual competencies. EPAs are observable and measureable units of work that can be mapped to competencies and milestones critical to performing them safely and effectively.The pediatrics community integrated the two frameworks to create a potential pathway of learning and assessment across the continuum from undergraduate medical education (UME) to graduate medical education (GME) and from GME to practice. The authors briefly describe the evolution of the Pediatrics Milestone Project and the process for identifying EPAs for the specialty and subspecialties of pediatrics. The method of integrating EPAs with competencies and milestones through a mapping process is discussed, and an example is provided. The authors illustrate the alignment of the AAMC's Core EPAs for Entering Residency with the general pediatrics EPAs and, in turn, the alignment of the latter with the subspecialty EPAs, thus helping build the bridge between UME and GME. The authors propose how assessment in GME, based on EPAs and milestones, can guide MOC to complete the bridge across the education continuum.
BACKGROUND The Institute of Medicine (IOM) dietary guidelines for vitamin D are based on limited pediatric data. Our objective was to estimate the dietary vitamin D requirements for maintaining serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] concentrations at the various IOM-considered thresholds of vitamin D status (12, 16, and 20뎝g/ml) during fall and winter in children.   METHODS Ninety-six healthy 8- to 14-y-old Pittsburgh-area black and white children enrolled in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial of vitamin D3 1,000 IU daily for 6 mo with baseline and 2-mo follow-up assessments completed during October through April were studied. Vitamin D intake from diet and study supplement adjusted for adherence and serum 25(OH)D were measured.   RESULTS The vitamin D intakes needed to maintain serum 25(OH)D concentrations at 12, 16, and 20뎝g/ml in 90% of the children were 581, 1,062, and 1543 IU/day, respectively. The estimated vitamin D intakes needed to maintain serum 25(OH)D concentrations at 20뎝g/ml in 97.5% of the children was 2,098 IU/day.   CONCLUSION Our data suggest that the current vitamin D recommended dietary allowance (RDA) (600 IU/day) is insufficient to cover the skeletal health needs of at least 50% of black and white children.
OBJECTIVE Identify every paediatric surgical article published in 1998 and every paediatric surgical article published in 2013, and determine which study designs were used and whether they were appropriate for robustly assessing interventions in surgical conditions.   METHODS A systematic review was conducted according to a pre-specified protocol (CRD42014007629), using EMBASE and Medline. Non-English language studies were excluded. Studies were included if meeting population criteria and either condition or intervention criteria.   POPULATION Children under the age of 18, or adults who underwent intervention for a condition managed by paediatric surgeons when they were under 18 years of age.   CONDITION One managed by general paediatric surgeons.   INTERVENTION Used for treatment of a condition managed by general paediatric surgeons.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Studies were classified according to whether the IDEAL collaboration recommended their design for assessing surgical interventions or not. Change in proportions between 1998 and 2013 was calculated.   RESULTS 1581 paediatric surgical articles were published in 1998, and 3453 in 2013. The most commonly used design, accounting for 45% of studies in 1998 and 46.8% in 2013, was the retrospective case series. Only 1.8% of studies were RCTs in 1998, and 1.9% in 2013. Overall, in 1998, 9.8% of studies used a recommended design. In 2013, 11.9% used a recommended design (proportion increase 2.3%, 95% confidence interval 0.5% increase to 4% increase, p = 0.017).   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE A low proportion of published paediatric surgical manuscripts utilise a design that is recommended for assessing surgical interventions. RCTs represent fewer than 1 in 50 studies. In 2013, 88.1% of studies used a less robust design, suggesting the need for a new way of approaching paediatric surgical research.
There are no Canadian immunization guidelines for children treated for malignancy. Guidelines do exist for patients who underwent hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT), but they provide broad timeframes for initiating vaccination; there is no standard schedule. The optimal approach to immunization in these populations is unclear. We sought to describe immunization practices at Canadian Pediatric Hematology/Oncology centers. A 43-item online questionnaire was distributed to the 16 programs in the C(17) research network of pediatric hematology/oncology centers to capture information on timing and criteria for immunization of patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) and those who have undergone HSCT. At each center, 1-2 physicians or pharmacists completed the survey to reflect center-wide immunization practices. Responses were received from 11/16 (69%) programs; 11 respondents reported on practices for patients with ALL and 9 reported on practices for patients who are post-HSCT. In 5/11 ALL programs (45%) re-immunization is recommended routinely after chemotherapy, starting 3-6혻months post-chemotherapy. In HSCT programs, timing of pneumococcal conjugate vaccination (PCV) varied from 3혻months post-HSCT (4혻programs) to 12혻months post-HSCT (4 programs). Live vaccines were administered 24혻months post-HSCT in 8/9 programs. All HSCT programs considered graft-versus-host-disease and 7 considered discontinuation of immunosuppression in immunization decisions. Pediatric hematology/oncology programs were divided in regards to re-immunization of patients with ALL post-chemotherapy. After HSCT, timing of PCV administration varied, with 4 programs initiating immunization later than Canadian guidelines recommend (3-9혻months post-HSCT). These findings suggest a need to standardize immunization practices in these populations.
BACKGROUND The American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program - Pediatrics uses a risk-adjusted, case-mix-adjusted methodology to compare quality of hospital-level surgical performance. This paper aims to focus quality improvement efforts on diagnoses that have large patient volume and high morbidity for pediatric plastic surgery.   METHODS Frequency statistics were generated for a cohort of patients under age 18 who underwent plastic surgery procedures at participating National Surgical Quality Improvement Program - Pediatrics hospitals from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2012.   RESULTS Cleft lip and palate procedures were the leading contributor to serious adverse events (45.00%), and the second largest contributor to composite morbidity (37.73%) as well as hospital-acquired infections (21.23%).   CONCLUSIONS When focusing resources for relevant data collection and quality improvement efforts, it is important to consider procedures that are both substantial volume and result in relatively higher morbidity. A balance must be made between what is relevant to collect and what is feasible given finite resources. Cleft lip and/or palate procedures might provide an ideal opportunity for coordinated efforts that could ultimately improve care for pediatric plastic surgery patients.
OBJECTIVE Complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) is commonly used by children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), yet no validated questionnaires assess that use. The objective of this study was to develop child self- and parent proxy-report questionnaires assessing CAM use and to determine the face and content validity of the 'Which Health Approaches and Treatments are you using?' (WHAT) questionnaires in pediatric rheumatology.   METHODS A sequential phased mixed methods approach was used to develop the questionnaires. A Delphi Survey of 126 experts followed by an interdisciplinary consensus conference of 14 stakeholders in CAM, general pediatrics and pediatric rheumatology was held to develop consensus on the content of the questionnaires using a nominal group technique. To determine face and content validity of the questionnaires, two groups, including (a) a purposive sample of 22 children with JIA 8 to 18 years and their parents from the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario and the Hospital for Sick Children, and (b) 21 Canadian pediatric rheumatology experts, participated in interviews. Participants were independently asked about the goal, understandability and comprehensiveness of the WHAT questionnaires, as well as the relevance of items.   RESULTS Consensus was reached on 17 items of the WHAT questionnaires. The domains found to be relevant were child's CAM use, factors associated with CAM use, perceived impact of CAM use, and communication about CAM. A total of 15 items in the parent proxy-report questionnaire and 13 items in the child report questionnaire showed adequate content validity.   CONCLUSIONS Consensus was reached by experts on the content of a pediatric CAM questionnaire. Face and content validity testing and modifications made to the WHAT questionnaires have helped ensure adequate preliminary validity for use in pediatric rheumatology. This constitutes the basis for further testing of these questionnaires in pediatric rheumatology and for adaptation to other chronic diseases.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES Nutrition is a fundamental component of care of critically ill children. Determining variation in nutritional practices within paediatric intensive care units (PICUs) allows for review and improvement of nutrition practices.   METHODS AND STUDY DESIGN The aim was to survey the nutrition practices and perspectives of paediatric intensivists and dieticians in Asia-Pacific and the Middle East. A questionnaire was developed to collect data on (1) the respondent's and institution's characteristics, (2) nutritional assessments and nutrient delivery practices, and (3) the perceived importance and barriers to optimal enteral feeding in the PICU.   RESULTS We analysed 47 responses from 35 centres in 18 different countries. Dedicated dietetic services were only present in 13 (37%) centres and regular nutrition assessments were conducted in only 12 (34%) centres. In centres with dedicated dieticians, we found greater use of carbohydrate, fat additives and special formulas. Two thirds [31 (66%)] of respondents used total fluids to estimate energy requirements. Only 11 (31%) centres utilized feeding protocols. These centres had higher use of small bowel feeding, acid suppressants, laxatives and gastric residual volume thresholds. When dealing with feed intolerance, they were also more likely to start a motility agent. There was also a lack of consensus on when feeding should start and the use of adjuncts.   CONCLUSIONS Nutrition practices and barriers are unique in Asia-Pacific and the Middle East and strongly reflect a lack of dietetic services. Future effort should focus on developing a uniform approach on nutrition practices to drive paediatric critical care nutrition research in these regions.
OBJECTIVE Pediatric neurosurgery can be highly cost-effective even in the developing world, but delivery of these services is hampered by resource limitations at the levels of both health care infrastructure and individual patients. Few studies have evaluated costs borne by neurosurgical patients in the developing world and their potential implications for efficient and effective delivery of care in this population. METHODS The families of 40 pediatric neurosurgery patients were surveyed in February 2015 at the AIC Kijabe Hospital in Kijabe, Kenya. Costs associated with obtaining inpatient care were assessed. RESULTS Patient families were charged an average of US $539.44 for neurosurgical services, representing 132% of their annual income. Indirect expenses (transport, food and lodging, lost wages) constituted US $79.37, representing 14.7% of the overall cost and 19.5% of their annual income. CONCLUSIONS Expansion of pediatric neurosurgical services throughout the developing world necessitates increased attention to seemingly insignificant expenses that are absorbed by patients and their families. Even when all direct costs are covered at the institutional or national level, without additional assistance, some patients may be too poor to obtain even 'free' neurosurgical care.
BACKGROUND Because adolescents rely heavily on emergency services for health care, a pediatric emergency department (PED) visit may be their only opportunity for sexually transmitted infection (STI) screening. The primary objectives of this study were to determine the proportion of Neisseria gonorrheae (GC) and Chlamydia trachomatis (CT) infections in asymptomatic PED adolescents and patient-perceived barriers to STI screening.   METHODS A convenience sample of patients aged 14 to 21 years presenting to an urban PED with nongenitourinary complaints was offered screening for GC and CT. Regardless of declining or accepting screening, all were asked to complete a questionnaire designed to identify barriers to screening.   RESULTS Sixty-eight percent of those approached participated (n = 719). Those who agreed to STI screening were more likely to be nonwhite (61.4% vs. 38.6%, P = 0.001) and publically insured (63.3%) versus privately insured (29.3%) or no insurance (7.58%). Four hundred three (56%) participants provided urine samples, and of those, 40 (9.9%) were positive for an STI. Controlling for other demographics, race was a significant predictor, with the odds of testing positive for nonwhite participants 5.90 times that of white participants. Patients who refused testing were more likely to report not engaging in sexual activity (54.3% vs. 42.4%, P = 0.009) and less likely to perceive that they were at risk for STIs.   CONCLUSIONS There are high proportions of GC and CT among asymptomatic adolescents visiting an academic urban PED. A universal PED STI screening program may be an important component of STI reduction initiatives, especially among adolescents who do not perceive that they are at risk and may not receive testing elsewhere.
Performing drug trials in pediatrics is challenging. In support of the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act, the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development funded the formation of the Pediatric Trials Network (PTN) in 2010. Since its inception, the PTN has developed strategies to increase both efficiency and safety of pediatric drug trials. Through use of innovative techniques such as sparse and scavenged blood sampling as well as opportunistic study design, participation in trials has grown. The PTN has also strived to improve consistency of adverse event reporting in neonatal drug trials through the development of a standardized adverse event table. We review how the PTN is optimizing operational efficiencies in pediatric drug trials to increase the safety of drugs in children.
Stroke in children carries lasting morbidity. Once recognized, it is important to evaluate and treat children with acute stroke efficiently and accurately. All children should receive neuroprotective measures. It is reasonable to consider treatment with advanced thrombolytic and endovascular agents. Delivery of such care requires purposeful institutional planning and organization in pediatric acute care centers. Primary stroke centers established for adults provide an example of the multidisciplinary approach that can be applied to the evaluation and treatment of children who present with acute stroke. The organizational infrastructure of these centers can be employed and adapted for treatment of children with acute stroke. It is likely that care for children with acute stroke can best be delivered by regional pediatric primary stroke centers dedicated to the care of children with pediatric stroke.
For the past two decades, musculoskeletal ultrasonography (MSKUS) has developed exponentially and has become an essential tool in rheumatology practice. This development has been far more limited in pediatric rheumatology which is partially related to deficits in the evidence base. Many studies have shown that MSKUS is more sensitive than the clinical examination for detecting synovitis and enthesitis in adults. At the same time, there is a lack of studies demonstrating its validity, reliability, and reproducibility in pediatric rheumatology. In addition, clear definitions for the normal pediatric joint and enthesis as well as various findings in pathology associated with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) and juvenile spondyloarthritis (JSpA) have only started to emerge. Most of this work is being done through the Outcome Measurement in Rheumatology Clinical Trials (OMERACT) ultrasound pediatric task force but the Pan American League of Associations for Rheumatology (PANLAR) US Pediatric Task Force is also working on validating MSKUS in children. In addition, several MSKUS courses for pediatric rheumatologists have been offered in Latin American countries; these will not only complement the scientific work pediatric-specific ultrasonography training, but also represents an essential component for the successful implementation of this technique into daily practice as well.
BACKGROUND Pediatric neurology trainee numbers have grown considerably in Canada; recent research, however, has shown that the number of pediatric neurology graduates is outpacing the need for future pediatric neurologists. The purpose of this study was to seek the opinion of pediatric neurology program directors and trainees regarding possible solutions for this issue.   METHODS Two focus groups were convened during the Canadian Neurological Sciences Federation annual congress in June 2012; one consisted of current and former program directors, and the other of current pediatric neurology trainees. Groups were asked for their perceptions regarding child neurology manpower issues in Canada as well as possible solutions. Focus groups were audio-recorded and transcribed for analysis. Theme-based qualitative analysis was used to analyze the transcripts.   RESULTS Major themes emerging from both focus groups included the emphasis on community pediatric neurology as a viable option for trainees, including the need for community mentors; recognizing the needs of underserviced areas; and establishing academic positions for community preceptors. The need for career mentoring and support structures during residency training was another major theme which arose. Program directors and trainees also gave examples of ways to reduce the current oversupply of trainees in Canada, including limiting the number of trainees entering programs, as well as creating a long-term vision of child neurology in Canada.   CONCLUSIONS A nationwide dialogue to discuss the supply and demand of manpower in academic and community pediatric neurology is essential. Career guidance options for pediatric neurology trainees across the country merit further strengthening.
Social determinants of health (SDH) impact clinical outcomes and are often poorly described in research trials. Using a validated tool, SDH dimensions were compared between adolescents enrolled and not enrolled into a large diabetes study. We observed that our study cohort reflected a SDH profile mirroring the eligible population.
Paediatrics and geriatrics both represent highly heterogenous populations and require special consideration when developing appropriate dosage forms. This paper discusses similarities, differences and considerations with respect to the development of appropriate medicine formulations for paediatrics and geriatrics. Arguably the most significant compliance challenge in older people is polypharmacy, whereas for children the largest barrier is taste. Pharmaceutical technology has progressed rapidly and technologies including FDCs, multi-particulates and orodispersible dosage forms provide unprecedented opportunities to develop novel and appropriate formulations for both old and new drugs. However, it is important for the formulation scientists to work closely with patients, carers and clinicians to develop such formulations for both the paediatric and geriatric population.
OBJECTIVES Over the past twenty years, numerous community social pediatrics centres (CSPCs) have been established in Quebec. Because the needs of the children followed are so complex, collaboration with organizations in social services and public and community health networks is paramount. The purpose of this study is to document CSPCs셪evel of integration into these networks and the issues and challenges involved in such collaborations.   METHOD Telephone surveys were conducted with 75 respondents from public and community networks and with representatives from CSPCs that have been open for at last one year. Two questionnaires were used to document the depth and quality of connections and an open question helped identify certain collaboration-related issues and challenges.   RESULTS CSPCs perceive a higher level of collaboration with the social services and public health network than with the community network. Similarly, CSPCs want to collaborate more with the public network than with the community network. With respect to the quality of collaborations, the climate is more positive and the level of joint coordination is higher between CSPCs and the public network. Although they are similar, the issues related to collaboration can be seen differently in terms of challenges, depending on the stakeholders' network.   CONCLUSION Results are discussed in light of challenges that characterize the collaborations between CSPCs and the networks, which include the recognition of their identity and the funding of the organizations.
BACKGROUND Increasingly, medical educators are incorporating reflective writing and original creative work into educational practices with the goals of stimulating student self-awareness, appreciation of multiple perspectives, and comfort with ambiguity and uncertainty. This study investigated students' creative projects to assess the extent to which they adopted a patient/relationship-centered, emotionally connected position toward patients and families.   METHODS Over a 10혻year period, students on a required third year pediatrics clerkship individually or in groups completed either a reflection or an education project using a creative medium. 520 projects (representing 595 students, 74.7혻% of total eligible students) were qualitatively analyzed according to various thematic and emotion-based dimensions.   RESULTS The majority of projects were personal narrative essays and poetry. The largest number of project themes related to the importance of patient/relationship-centered medicine with patients. The next largest number of projects focused on health education of parents, patients, or classmates. In telling their stories, students were more likely to use a personal voice representing either their or the patient's perspective than an objective, impersonal one. In terms of emotional tone, projects were more likely to be serious than humorous. The largest number of students' emotions expressed an empathic tone. Students identified a large number and wide range of both negative and positive feelings in themselves and their patients. The majority of student emotions were positive, while the majority of patient and family emotions were negative.   CONCLUSIONS Students' preference for patient-centered, relational themes, as well as their tendency to favor the first voice, empathic tone, and willingness to express a range of positive and negative emotions in presenting their projects, suggests that they valued emotional connection with patients and families during the pediatrics clerkship experience.
Improvements in the care of children with cardiomyopathy, CHDs, and acquired heart disease have led to an increased number of children surviving with advanced heart failure. In addition, the advent of more durable mechanical circulatory support options in children has changed the outcome for many patients who otherwise would have succumbed while waiting for heart transplantation. As a result, more children with end-stage heart failure are being referred for heart transplantation, and there is increased demand for a limited donor organ supply. A review of important publications in the recent years related to paediatric heart failure, transplantation, and mechanical circulatory support show a trend towards pushing the limits of the current therapies to address the needs of this growing population. There have been a number of publications focussing on previously published risk factors perceived as barriers to successful heart transplantation, including elevated pulmonary vascular resistance, medication non-adherence, re-transplantation, transplantation of the failed Fontan patient, and transplantation in an infant or child bridged with mechanical circulatory support. This review will highlight some of these key articles from the last 3 years and describe recent advances in the understanding, diagnosis, and management of children with end-stage heart disease.
OBJECTIVES To develop a procedure for management of off-label medications, and to analyze the treatments, indications, and hospital units which will request them more frequently, as well as which variables will have an impact on the authorization decision, and its economic impact.   METHODS A procedure was designed where clinicians would complete request forms and the Hospital Unit would prepare reports assessing their efficacy, safety, convenience, and cost. The request forms for the past five years were analyzed.   RESULTS A total of 834 applications were received, and 88.1% of these were accepted. The authorization rates were higher for Paediatric Units (95.7% vs. 86.6%; p<0.05). The reasons for considering prescriptions as off-label were: different indication (73.2%), different combination (10.2%), different line of treatment (8.6%) and different age (8%). A 73.4% of requests were for antineoplastic drugs, and the most frequently prescribed were rituximab (120) and bevacizumab (103). The quality of evidence supporting the prescriptions was moderate-low, though no direct relationship with the likelihood of approval was demonstrated (p = 0.413). The cost of the approved medications was 8,567,537 , and the theoretical savings for those drugs rejected was of 2,268,642 . There was a statistically significant decrease in the authorization rate (p < 0.05, Student's t test) when spending increased.   CONCLUSIONS The responsibility for assessing off-label prescriptions has fallen on the Pharmacy Unit. It has not been demonstrated that the quality of evidence represents a decisive variable for approval of treatment; on the other hand, age and cost have demonstrated a significant impact.
BACKGROUND Telemedical wound care is one of the possible applications of teledermatology. The treatment of pediatric wounds needs frequent and periodic assessments of their local status and adjustment of dressings choice.   MATERIALS AND METHODS We present our experience using telemedicine in the successful assessment and treatment of 19 pediatric patients at the OPBG, Rome . Photographs with a digital camera were taken and sent weekly by mail to a wound care specialist in Rome. This allowed the expert to diagnose and evaluate the wounds periodically.   RESULTS In the shown cases, telemedicine allowed us to have an immediate evaluation and therapy adjustment. The quality of the images was good enough that the physician could regularly evaluate the status of the wound and immediately give his feedback to the parents. Of these 19, 13 patients (68%) experienced a wound resolution during the remote monitoring period. The satisfaction of the parents detected at 3, 6 and 12 months was found to be respectively 57%, 71%, 84%.   CONCLUSION Reducing transportation to the hospital to obtain a specialist advice, wound teleconsultation lowers health care costs and improve the quality of life for pediatric patients and their family, while still maintaining a high quality of pediatric wound care.
OBJECTIVE The risk of thrombosis is increased in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Few studies have assessed factors associated with thrombosis within the pediatric SLE (pSLE) population. We sought to better characterize these associated factors in pSLE patients using the Childhood Arthritis & Rheumatology Research Alliance (CARRA) registry.   METHODS Within the CARRA registry, patients with a history of thrombosis were compared to those without. Univariate logistic regression was used to calculate odds ratios. A multivariable logistic regression model was conducted that included variables from the univariate analysis that had a p value<0.10 and other variables identified as clinically significant from published literature.   RESULTS Among the 979 pSLE patients in the CARRA registry, 24 (2.5%) patients had a history of arterial thrombosis and 35 (3.6%) of venous thrombosis. In the univariate analysis, the odds ratio of having a thrombotic event were found to be significantly higher in patients with a history of vasculitis, avascular necrosis (AVN), or antiphospholipid antibody (aPL). Similar results were found for vasculitis, AVN, and aPL in the multivariable analysis.   CONCLUSION Our study of pSLE patients suggests that vasculitis, positive APL, and AVN are associated with thrombotic events in this population.
OBJECTIVES (1) Analyze upstream and downstream activity before and after enrollment with the Multidisciplinary Pediatric Aerodigestive Care Team (MPACT). (2) Identify potential demand for MPACT services with ICD-9 data.   STUDY DESIGN Retrospective review of financial claims data.   SETTING Tertiary care children's center.   SUBJECTS Pediatric patients (0-18 years old) enrolled with MPACT (pediatric otolaryngology, gastroenterology, pulmonary, speech-language pathology).   METHODS Case mix data from fiscal years (FYs) 2010-2013 were analyzed for primary, secondary, and tertiary ICD-9 codes in 4 aerodigestive diagnostic categories (ADCs): dysphagia, chronic cough, gastroesophageal disease, and chronic pulmonary disease/asthma. Inclusion criteria included patients <18 years old, seen by MPACT, with FY2010-FY2013 case mix data and 2 ADCs. Unique outpatient and inpatient encounters and associated charges were evaluated to determine upstream and downstream activity trends.   RESULTS Of the 126 patients meeting inclusion criteria, 55 (44%) had 3 ADCs, and 11 (9%) had 4. These 126 patients received outpatient care during 3068 unique encounters. Outpatient total charges were $282,102 before and $744,542 after MPACT intervention. Eighty-six (68%) patients received inpatient care during 423 unique encounters. Inpatient charges were $4,257,137 before and $2,872,849 after MPACT enrollment. Overall, a net reduction of $921,848 in total charges, $7316 per MPACT patient, was noted. FY2010-FY2014 data identified an additional 1728 pediatric patients with 2 ADCs not enrolled in MPACT.   CONCLUSION A cohort of children with aerodigestive disease experienced a shift from inpatient to outpatient care with an overall 20% reduction in patient charges when the years before and after MPACT enrollment were compared. Available ICD-9 data suggest potential demand for MPACT services.
Reliable and accurate reference intervals (RIs) for laboratory analyses are an integral part of the process of correct interpretation of clinical laboratory test results. RIs given in laboratory reports have an important role in aiding the clinician in interpreting test results in reference to values for healthy populations. Since the 1980s, the International Federation of Clinical Chemistry (IFCC) has been proactive in establishing recommendations to clarify the true significance of the term 'RIs, to select the appropriate reference population and statistically analyse the data. The C28-A3 guideline published by the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) and IFCC is still the most widely-used source of reference in this area. In recent years, protocols additional to the Guideline have been published by the IFCC, Committee on Reference Intervals and Decision Limits (C-RIDL), including all details of multicenter studies on RIs to meet the requirements in this area. Multicentric RIs studies are the most important development in the area of RIs. Recently, the C-RIDL has performed many multicentric studies to obtain common RIs. Confusion of RIs and clinical decision limits (CDLs) remains an issue and pediatric and geriatric age groups are a significant problem. For future studies of RIs, the genetic effect would seem to be the most challenging area. 쮂he aim of the review is to present the current theory and practice of RIs, with special emphasis given to multicenter RIs studies, RIs studies for pediatric and geriatric age groups, clinical decision limits and partitioning by genetic effects on RIs.
The objective of this study was to determine the rate, independent risk factors, and outcomes of healthcare-associated infections in pediatric patients. This study was performed between 2011 and 2014 in pediatric clinic and intensive care unit. 86 patients and 86 control subjects were included in the study. Of 86 patients with nosocomial infections (NIs), there were 100 NIs episodes and 90 culture growths. The median age was 32.0 months. The median duration of hospital stay of the patients was 30.0 days. The most frequent pathogens were Coagulase-negative Staphylococcus, Acinetobacter spp., Klebsiella spp., and Candida spp. Unconsciousness, prolonged hospitalization, transfusion, mechanical ventilation, use of central venous catheter, enteral feeding via a nasogastric tube, urinary catheter, and receiving carbapenems and glycopeptides were found to be significantly higher in NIs patients. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed prolonged hospitalization, neutropenia, and use of central venous catheter and carbapenems as the independent risk factors for NIs. In the univariate analysis, unconsciousness, mechanical ventilation, enteral feeding, use of enteral feeding via a nasogastric tube, H2 receptor blockers, and port and urinary catheter were significantly associated with mortality. In the multiple logistic regression analysis, only mechanical ventilation was found as an independent predictor of mortality in patients with NIs.
Liver transplantation (LT) is an important component in the therapeutic armamentarium of managing end-stage liver disease. In North American children, biliary atresia remains the most common indication for LT compared to hepatitis C in adults, while hepatoblastoma is the most common liver tumor requiring LT, versus Hepatocellular carcinoma in adults. Rejection, lymphoproliferative disease, renal insufficiency, metabolic syndrome, recurrent disease, 'de novo' autoimmune hepatitis and malignancy require careful surveillance and prompt action in adults and children after LT. In children, specific attention to EBV viremia, growth, development, adherence and transition to the adult services is also required. Antibody mediated rejection and screening for donor specific antibodies is becoming important in managing liver graft dysfunction. Biomarkers to identify and predict tolerance are being developed. Machine perfusion and stem cells (iPS) to synthesize organs are generating interest and are a focus for research.
There has been a growing interest in fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) over recent years, in part due to the increasing prevalence of Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) and expanding association of intestinal dysbiosis with a wide range of human diseases. Many adult studies have shown that FMT is an effective treatment for recurrent CDI and may possibly have applications in other illnesses such as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD); however, there is a paucity of data available in children who may differ from adults for many reasons including having a dynamic developing microbiome compared to adults who have a relatively stable microbiome. Here, we review published studies looking at FMT in children, for CDI and IBD, and discuss special considerations needed when conducting FMT in children.
As consultants in rehabilitation medicine and pediatrics sometimes we realize that most of our patients and their families are left unsupported and alone in terms of rehabilitation therapy during the treatment of their primary disease. Probably we forget that rehabilitation should be an integral part of every treatment process. In the case of rare diseases, their basic treatment should be carried out in speciality facilities (speciality hospitals) where personel and equipment are able to run the most effective treatment. Rehabilitation medicine offers full range of cheap, non-invasive diagnostic tools. Well-chosen equipment can help with physical therapy and allow the independence of the child and full social integration. In an era of rapid change in civilization and progress of science, professionals use new technologies more often. This also refers to the field of rehabilitation medicine. Exoskeletons and lokomats created nowadays allow the use of new technologies in rehabilitation treatment processes. For specific disorders effective treatment may include even virtual reality (VR). Early initiation of the rehabilitation process can improve the therapeutic effects and the overall outcome of the treatment, identifying the needs and realizing the available goals of rehabilitation that could build the sense of safety in the family and enhance their trust in the therapeutic team.
BACKGROUND Robotic surgery has been proposed as a minimally invasive surgical technique with advantages for both surgeons and patients, but is associated with high costs (installation, use and maintenance). The Health Technology Assessment Unit of the Bambino Ges첫 Children's Hospital sought to investigate the economic sustainability of robotic surgery, having foreseen its impact on the hospital budget METHODS: Break-even and cost-minimization analyses were performed. A deterministic approach for sensitivity analysis was applied by varying the values of parameters between pre-defined ranges in different scenarios to see how the outcomes might differ.   RESULTS The break-even analysis indicated that at least 349 annual interventions would need to be carried out to reach the break-even point. The cost-minimization analysis showed that robotic surgery was the most expensive procedure among the considered alternatives (in terms of the contribution margin).   CONCLUSIONS Robotic surgery is a good clinical alternative to laparoscopic and open surgery (for many pediatric operations). However, the costs of robotic procedures are higher than the equivalent laparoscopic and open surgical interventions. Therefore, in the short run, these findings do not seem to support the decision to introduce a robotic system in our hospital.
BACKGROUND Children with special health care needs often require health services that are only provided at subspecialty centers. Such children who present to nonspecialty hospitals might require a hospital-to-hospital transfer. When transitioning between medical settings, communication is an integral aspect that can affect the quality of patient care. The objectives of the study were to identify barriers and facilitators to effective interfacility pediatric transfer communication to general pediatric floors from the perspectives of referring and accepting physicians, and then develop a conceptual model for effective interfacility transfer communication.   METHODS This was a single-center qualitative study using grounded theory methodology. Referring and accepting physicians of children with special health care needs were interviewed. Four researchers coded the data using ATLAS.ti (version 7, Scientific Software Development GMBH, Berlin, Germany), using a 2-step process of open coding, followed by focused coding until no new codes emerged. The research team reached consensus on the final major categories and subsequently developed a conceptual model.   RESULTS Eight referring and 9 accepting physicians were interviewed. Theoretical coding resulted in 3 major categories: streamlined transfer process, quality handoff and 2-way communication, and positive relationships between physicians across facilities. The conceptual model unites these categories and shows how these categories contribute to effective interfacility transfer communication. Proposed interventions involved standardizing the communication process and incorporating technology such as telemedicine during transfers.   CONCLUSIONS Communication is perceived to be an integral component of interfacility transfers. We recommend that transfer systems be re-engineered to make the process more streamlined, to improve the quality of the handoff and 2-way communication, and to facilitate positive relationships between physicians across facilities.
Diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG) is a malignant brain tumor of childhood that carries an extremely poor prognosis. There are ~200-300 new cases diagnosed each year, [1, 2] and little progress has been made in changing the prognosis and outcome of the tumor since it was first documented in the literature in 1926 [3]. The median overall survival is 8-11 months [4], with an overall survival rate of 30% at 1 year, and less than 10% at 2 years [4]. This review will provide background information on DIPGs, a historical look at the trends in caring for DIPG, and current trends in diagnosis and treatment. By changing the way we care for these terminal tumors, we can work towards having a better understanding of the underlying molecular biology, and attempt to develop better chemotherapeutic tools to combat the disease.
BACKGROUND Residents must strive for excellence in their nontechnical skills (NTS). However, NTS have not traditionally been well-assessed in pediatric emergency departments (EDs). One underutilized assessment strategy is to have parents assess the residents caring for their children. Prior to involving parents in resident assessment, it is essential to identify which NTS parents in pediatric EDs can assess.   AIM To explore which resident NTS parents in pediatric EDs can assess.   METHODS An exploratory qualitative study design was used. It included interviews with faculty members involved in the supervision and assessment of residents in a pediatric ED and residents who had experience working in a pediatric ED, as well as focus groups with parents who had visited a pediatric ED at least twice in the past year.   RESULTS Participants in this study suggested that parents, if provided with the opportunity, can assess residents' communication skills, comfort in a pediatric setting, adaptability, and collaboration.   CONCLUSIONS This study demystifies how parents can become involved in the assessment of residents' NTS. The findings will inform the development of assessment strategies and could be used to develop assessment instruments that enable parents to become actively involved in the assessment of residents in pediatric EDs.
Autoimmune neurologic diseases are of major clinical importance in children. Antibody-mediated diseases of the central nervous system are now increasingly recognized in childhood, where the antibodies bind to cell surface epitopes on neuronal or glial proteins, and the patients demonstrate either focal or more generalized clinical signs depending on the extent of brain regions targeted by the antibodies. The antibodies are directed towards ion channels, receptors, and membrane proteins; and the diseases include limbic encephalitis and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor-antibody encephalitis, among many others. Additionally there are conditions where the wider immune system is implicated. Neurologic features like seizures, movement disorders, autonomic dysfunction, and sleep disorders, with neuroimaging and electrophysiologic features, may indicate a specific antibody-mediated or immune disorder. Often, phenotypic overlap is observed between these conditions, and phenotypic variation seen in children with the same condition. Nevertheless, many patients benefit from immunotherapy with substantial improvement, although huge efforts are still required to optimize the outcome for many patients. In many patients no antibodies have yet been identified, even though they respond to immunotherapies. Here we describe the known antibodies and associated diseases, discuss conditions that are thought to be immune-mediated but have no known immunologic biomarker, and provide guidelines for the investigation and classification of these disorders.
A Paediatric Investigation Plan (PIP) is a development plan that aims to ensure that sufficient data are obtained through studies in paediatrics to support the generation of marketing authorisation of medicines for children. This paper highlights some practical considerations and challenges with respect to PIP submissions and paediatric clinical trials during the pharmaceutical development phase, using the FP7-funded Clonidine for Sedation of Paediatric Patients in the Intensive Care Unit (CloSed) project as a case study. Examples discussed include challenges and considerations regarding formulation development, blinding and randomisation, product labelling and shipment and clinical trial requirements versus requirements for marketing authorisation. A significant quantity of information is required for PIP submissions and it is hoped that future applicants may benefit from an insight into some critical considerations and challenges faced in the CloSed project.
Most physicians who work in the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) infant and child health programme in Jordan are general practitioners with no postgraduate training in paediatrics. Furthermore, in resource-poor or remote settings, the ability to deliver live continuing medical education (CME) is often limited. A questionnaire exploring the resources available for accessing CME, preferences for types of CME, current sources of CME and topics of interest in the field of paediatric care was sent to all 92 physicians practising in UNRWA clinics in Jordan. Of the 89 respondents 80% had attended live medical lectures for CME and 70% CME meetings. Despite most physicians having access to the Internet only 52.8% were interested in Internet-based courses for accessing CME. There was a statistically significant relationship between year of graduation from medical school and preference for Internet-based CME. Implications for CME participation and paediatric CME topics are discussed.
We present the inaugural evidence-based Canadian recommendations for the measurement of blood pressure in children and the diagnosis and evaluation of pediatric hypertension. Rates of pediatric hypertension are increasing concomitant with increased rates of childhood obesity. With this, there is growing awareness of the need to measure blood pressure in children. Consequently, the present recommendations have been developed to address an important gap and improve the clinical care of children. For 2016, a total of 15 recommendations are presented. These are categorized in a fashion similar to that of the혻existing adult recommendations. Specifically, we present recommendations on (1) accurate measurement of blood pressure in children, (2) criteria for diagnosis of hypertension in children, (3) assessment of overall cardiovascular risk in hypertensive children, (4) routine laboratory tests for the investigation of children with hypertension, (5) ambulatory blood pressure measurement in children, and (6) the role of echocardiography. We discuss the rationale for the recommendations and present additional supporting material for the clinician, including tables with standardized techniques for blood pressure measurement and determination of normative blood pressure values for children. Hypertension Canada's Canadian Hypertension Education Program Guidelines Task Force will update the recommendations annually and develop future evidence-based recommendations to guide prevention and treatment of pediatric hypertension.
CLINICAL ISSUE Child abuse is the physical, sexual or emotional maltreatment, or neglect of a혻child or children. Child maltreatment is defined as any act or series of acts of commission or omission by a혻parent or other caregiver that results in harm, potential for harm, or threat of harm to a혻child. Child abuse can occur in a혻child's home, or in the organizations, schools or communities the child interacts with. There are four major categories of child abuse: neglect, physical abuse, psychological or emotional abuse, and sexual abuse.   DIAGNOSTIC WORK-UP In child abuse, establishing an early diagnosis is essential. Apart from taking a혻detailed history and performing a혻meticulous physical examination, including forensic evaluation as indicated, further diagnostic steps (imaging studies, ophthalmic examination/funduscopy, laboratory studies, etc.) may be warranted.   PRACTICAL RECOMMENDATIONS In addition to providing acute medical help, longer-term, multidisciplinary interventions have to be put in place in cases of child abuse. This article summarizes the most important facts pertinent to this subject.
The article presents historical data about paediatric health care delivery and escort of children of the Command of the Red Army during their evacuation from Moscow in 1941. Data on foundation of kindergartens of People's commissariat in 1942-1943, their support and foundation of children's department in the hospital is given. Special subdivision governed by the head of child care institutions of the hospital was formed for managing child care institutions.
Our journal covers a broad range of research and scholarly topics related to children's respiratory disorders. For updated perspectives on the rapidly expanding knowledge in our field, we will summarize the past year's publications in our major topic areas, as well as selected publications in these areas from the core clinical journal literature outside our own pages. The current review covers articles on neonatal lung disease, pulmonary physiology, and respiratory infection. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2016;51:733-739. 짤 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
OBJECTIVE Bedside ultrasound for hemodynamic evaluation in critically ill children is increasingly recognized as an important skill for pediatric critical care medicine providers. Our institution implemented a training curriculum leading to institutional credentialing for pediatric critical care providers in nonprocedural bedside ultrasound core applications. We hypothesized that hemodynamic studies performed or supervised by credentialed providers (credentialed providers group) have better image quality and greater accuracy in interpretation than studies performed by non-credentialed providers without supervision (non-credentialed providers group).   DESIGN Retrospective descriptive study.   SETTING Single-center tertiary non-cardiac 55-bed PICU in a children's hospital.   PATIENTS Patients from October 2013 to January 2015, with hemodynamic bedside ultrasound performed and interpreted by pediatric critical care providers exposed to bedside ultrasound training.   INTERVENTIONS A cardiologist blinded to performer scored hemodynamic bedside ultrasound image quality for five core cardiac views (excellent = 3, good = 2, fair = 1, unacceptable = 0; median = quality score) and interpretation within 5 hemodynamic domains (agreement = 3, minor disagreement = 2, major disagreement = 1; median = interpretation score), as well as a global assessment of interpretation.   MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS Eighty-one studies (45 in the credentialed providers group and 36 in the non-credentialed providers group) were evaluated. There was no statistically significant difference in quality score between groups (median: 1.4 [interquartile range: 0.8-1.8] vs median: 1.2 [interquartile range: 0.75-1.6]; p = 0.14]. Studies in the credentialed providers group had higher interpretation score than those in the non-credentialed providers group (median: 3 [interquartile range: 2.5-3) vs median: 2.67 [interquartile range: 2.25-3]; p = 0.04). Major disagreement between critical care provider and cardiology review occurred in 25 of 283 hemodynamic domains assessed (8.8%), with no statistically significant difference between credentialed providers and non-credentialed providers groups (6.1% vs 11.9%; p = 0.12).   CONCLUSION Hemodynamic bedside ultrasound performed or supervised by credentialed pediatric critical care providers had more accurate interpretation than studies performed by unsupervised non-credentialed providers. A rigorous pediatric critical care medicine bedside ultrasound credentialing program can train intensivists to attain adequate images and interpret those images appropriately.
QUESTIONS UNDER STUDY This paper explores parents' and patients' satisfaction with care in Swiss paediatric oncology settings and examines difficulties experienced while undergoing treatment for cancer.   METHODS Semistructured interviews were conducted with 19 parents, and with 17 children who were diagnosed with cancer and receiving treatment. During these interviews questions pertaining to communication and decision-making at time of diagnosis and throughout the illness course were asked. In this paper, we examined these interviews using thematic coding to identify themes with regard to satisfaction with care.   RESULTS Generally, participants reported being very content with the care they received. Aspects that contributed to satisfaction were the friendliness and responsive nature of healthcare staff; helpful communication; and professionals going beyond their duties to care for the family. In spite of mainly being pleased with the care they received, participants underlined several issues that made their experiences at times difficult. These included frequent change of physician or receiving care from another unit, which for them represented lack of continuity of care; language problems; and challenges with reproductive health issues of the child. Additionally, patients suggested several ways to improve hospital stays and thereby patient satisfaction.   CONCLUSION Participants reported being very satisfied with care delivered by paediatric oncology units. Nevertheless, they also identified problems that are worth addressing in order to efficiently tend to the needs of patients and families undergoing this difficult experience. Future research is needed to explore how care for children with cancer and their families can be further improved.
Emergency ultrasound is performed at the point of care to answer focused clinical questions in a rapid manner. Over the last 20 years, the use of this technique has grown rapidly, and it has become a core requirement in many emergency medicine residencies and in some pediatric emergency medicine fellowships. The use of emergency ultrasound in the pediatric setting is increasing due to the lack of ionizing radiation with these studies, as compared to computed tomography. Utilizing diagnostic ultrasound in the emergency department can allow clinicians to arrive at a diagnosis at the bedside rather than sending the patient out of the department for another study. This issue focuses on common indications for diagnostic ultrasound, as found in the pediatric literature or extrapolated from adult literature where pediatric evidence is scarce. Limitations, current trends, controversies, and future directions of diagnostic ultrasound in the emergency department are also discussed.
BACKGROUND In recent years, the European Commission has supported an increased focus on rare cancers in order to improve quality of care, disseminate best practice and set up networks to improve access that is essential to continued progress. At European Union (EU) conference in 2009, an agreement was reached to create a 'European Standard of Care for Children with Cancer'. In 2013, the European Paediatric Oncology Society launched a Europe-wide survey in order to assess the implementation of the Standards.   METHODS Representative experts from 36 countries, including 27 EU members, were invited to complete a questionnaire describing the quality of treatment and care received by young cancer patients in their country, together with the characteristics of the health care infrastructure and paediatric haematology-oncology (PHO) teams.   FINDINGS Thirty-five European countries provided comprehensive responses. Within the responding countries, 341 PHO centres were identified. Only 18 countries consider they have full diagnostic services, all necessary drugs and supportive care. The annual incidence rate is approximately 146.1 new cancer cases/million children and adolescents. In 24 countries, paediatric haematology and oncology is officially recognised as a specific qualification. A total of 1178 specialists certified in PHO are currently working in Europe. Finally, 31 (88.6%) countries provide a multidisciplinary palliative care for terminally ill children.   INTERPRETATION This survey provides quantitative data that demonstrate the current healthcare inequalities for children and adolescents with cancer in Europe. This variability in care provision and quality is likely to underlie the variation in childhood cancer survival rate in these countries.
BACKGROUND Spinal cord infarctions in children are rare, with few cases reported in the literature. Recognition is challenging, as children's clinical presentations and underlying pathological processes differ from those of adults. Most reported cases are in children with predisposing medical conditions, but spinal cord strokes can occur in otherwise healthy individuals.   CASE REPORT A 10-year-old boy with no significant medical history presented with progressive left-sided weakness and neck pain. He was diagnosed with ischemic infarction of his inferior medulla and cervical spinal cord. WHY SHOULD AN EMERGENCY PHYSICIAN BE AWARE OF THIS?: Ischemic stroke of the spinal cord should be considered in children with clinical weakness, even in the absence of risk factors.
OBJECTIVE To determine the relationship between pediatric residency program size and resident demographic characteristics, career intentions, and training experiences.   METHODS Annual national random samples of 1000 graduating pediatrics residents were surveyed between 2010 and 2014. Response years were pooled for analysis, and trends in resident demographic characteristics, career intentions and job search, and training experiences were compared across program class size: small (<10 residents per class), medium (10-19 residents per class), and large (20 residents per class).   RESULTS Overall response rate was 61% (3038 of 5000). Primary care goals at the end of residency varied according to program size: 45.9% for small programs, 43.4% for medium programs, and 35.1% for large programs. Reports of excellent or very good preparation for subspecialty fellowship and hospitalist positions increased across program size, whereas primary care preparation reports decreased. Only half of the residents in large programs who enter primary care believe they are prepared and less than half in small programs who accept subspecialty fellowship positions believe they are prepared for these new positions. Residents in medium and large programs report being most prepared for hospitalist work.   CONCLUSIONS Notable numbers of residents in small programs pursue subspecialties and notable numbers in large programs enter primary care. However, residents believe they are less prepared for primary care as program size increases and less prepared for subspecialty training as program size decreases. These findings suggest that the training experiences of some residents do not optimally align with their future practice.
OBJECTIVES To develop consensus recommendations for peri-operative tracheotomy care in pediatric patients.   METHODS Expert opinion by the members of the International Pediatric Otolaryngology Group (IPOG). The mission of the IPOG is to develop expertise-based consensus recommendations for the management of pediatric otolaryngologic disorders with the goal of improving patient care. The consensus recommendations herein represent the first publication by the group.   RESULTS Consensus recommendations including pre-operative, intra-operative, and post-operative considerations, as well as sedation and nutrition management are described. These recommendations are based on the collective opinion of the IPOG members and are targeted to (i) otolaryngologists who perform tracheotomies on pediatric patients, (ii) intensivists who are involved in the shared-care of these patients, and (iii) allied health professionals.   CONCLUSION Pediatric peri-operative tracheotomy care consensus recommendations are aimed at improving patient-centered care in this patient population.
Abdominal pain is a common complaint that leads to pediatric patients seeking emergency care. The emergency care provider has the arduous task of determining which child likely has a benign cause and not missing the devastating condition that needs emergent attention. This article reviews common benign causes of abdominal pain as well as some of the cannot-miss emergent causes.
BACKGROUND There are gaps in the existing evidence base about assent, with conflicting and unhelpful views prevalent. We contend that appropriate assent is a valuable process that has important consequences for children's/young people's participation in research. Furthermore, there is a need for a model to support researchers in making decisions about who to assent and how to do this is a meaningful way.   METHODS We undertook a scoping review of the literature to assess the body of opinion on assent in research with children/young people. An anonymous online survey was conducted to gather views from the wider community undertaking research with children/young people. We also sought to gather examples of current and effective practice that could be shared beyond the level of a single institution and our own experience. Survey participants included 48 health professionals with varied levels of experience, all actively involved in research with children.   RESULTS Published work, the findings from the online survey and our knowledge as experienced researchers in the field have confirmed four domains that should be considered in order for assent to be meaningful and individualized: child-related factors, family dynamics, study design and complexity and researcher and organizational factors. Mapping these domains onto the three paradigm cases for decision-making around children and young people's assent/consent as recommended by the Nuffield Council on Bioethics has resulted in a model that will aid researchers in understanding the relationship between assent and consent and help them make decisions about when assent is appropriate.   CONCLUSIONS The debate about assent needs to move away from terminology, definition and legal issues. It should focus instead on practical ways of supporting researchers to work in partnership with children, thus ensuring a more informed, voluntary and more robust and longer lasting commitment to research.
In pediatric healthcare, there is a recognized need to address social determinants of health (SDOH) to positively influence child health and development. In addition, family-centred care (FCC) recognizes the value of the family unit in affecting individual patient experiences of illness and care. However, pediatric healthcare that incorporates principles of FCC and SDOH may be interpreted as calling on clinicians to deviate from or add to practices that form an accepted standard of care. This paper explores the legal and ethical considerations of doing so and describes practical responses to these challenging situations.
Computed tomography (CT)-guided percutaneous drainage is a minimally invasive procedure that allows for accurate diagnosis and therapy with minimal complications. The drawback is that CT guidance carries a significant amount of radiation exposure. CT-guided percutaneous drainages have been widely used in adults and have been gaining momentum within the pediatric population. Through a thorough review of our institution's (Montefiore Medical Center) CT-guided percutaneous drainages within our pediatric patients, we assessed the radiation exposure per study as well as which studies were deemed possible under ultrasound guidance as a possible alternative.
Interest in the physiological responses to exercise unique to the pediatric age group has grown exponentially over the past 50 years. A number of issues surrounding children's exercise have been particularly responsible for this trend, particularly a) recognition of the health benefits of exercise in youth, b) the growing involvement of young persons in highly intense levels of sports play, and c) the role that exercise may play in the diagnosis and management of children with chronic disease. As a consequence, current research to date has provided a comprehensive picture of the features specific to children's response to exercise. Future challenges facing the field of pediatric exercise science involve translating this information into practical guidelines which can be applied to the realms of clinical medical practice, preventive health initiatives, and athletic training regimens which are appropriate for this age group.
In this review, we highlight promising new discoveries that may generate useful and clinically relevant insights into the mechanisms that link exercise with growth during critical periods of development. Growth in childhood and adolescence is unique among mammals and is a dynamic process regulated by an evolution of hormonal and inflammatory mediators, age-dependent progression of gene expression, and environmentally modulated epigenetic mechanisms. Many of these same processes likely affect molecular transducers of physical activity. How the molecular signaling associated with growth is synchronized with signaling associated with exercise is poorly understood. Recent advances in 'omics'-namely genomics and epigenetics, metabolomics, and proteomics-now provide exciting approaches and tools that can be used for the first time to address this gap. A biologic definition of 'healthy' exercise that links the metabolic transducers of physical activity with parallel processes that regulate growth will transform health policy and guidelines that promote optimal use of physical activity.
Exercise has long been reputed to have beneficial effects on cognitive processes and emotional stability, with obvious applications to lifespan developmental issues in mental health. Over the last 20 years, animal studies have provided potential mechanisms for this link in neurophysiological terms. Only a very small number of studies have applied this model to well-controlled child and adolescent studies of psychological development, with such studies necessarily requiring collaboration across the fields of exercise science and developmental psychology. In this paper, I outline why the field is now well positioned to increase this effort. Core to this argument is an outline of historical reasons for a (somewhat still active) resistance to this integrative perspective within developmental psychology and a brief synopsis of the countering evidence, followed by a summary of how advances in electrophysiology now make such studies highly accessible and reasonable in terms of cost and convenience.
Here we evaluate the current status of clinical research on regional hyperthermia (RHT) in combination with chemotherapy or radiation therapy in paediatric oncology.Data were identified in searches of MEDLINE, Current Contents, PubMed, and references from relevant articles using medical subject headings including hyperthermia, cancer, paediatric oncology, children, radiation therapy and chemotherapy. Currently, only two RHT centres exist in Europe which treat children. Clinical RHT research in paediatric oncology has as yet been limited to children with sarcomas and germ cell tumours that respond poorly to or recur after chemotherapy. RHT is a safe and effective treatment delivering local thermic effects, which may also stimulate immunological processes via heat-shock protein reactions. RHT is used chiefly in children and adolescents with sarcomas or germ cell tumours located in the abdomino-pelvic region, chest wall or extremities to improve operability or render the tumour operable. It could potentially be combined with radiation therapy in a post-operative R1 setting where more radical surgery is not possible or combined with chemotherapy instead of radiation therapy in cases where the necessary radiation dose is impossible to achieve or would have mutilating consequences. RHT might also be an option for chemotherapy intensification in the neoadjuvant first-line treatment setting for children and adolescents, as was recently reflected in the promising long-term outcome data in adults with high-risk soft tissue sarcomas (EORTC 62961/ESHO trial).The limited data available indicate that combining RHT with chemotherapy is a promising option to treat germ cell tumours and, potentially, sarcomas. RHT may also be beneficial in first-line therapy in children, adolescents and young adults. The research should focus on optimising necessary technical demands and then initiate several clinical trials incorporating RHT into interdisciplinary treatment of children, adolescents and young adults that include translational research components exploring potential immunological mechanisms of action.
INTRODUCTION Paediatric fractures are common and frequently followed-up. The aim of this study is to quantify the private costs for the affected families, as well as the costs for society due to paediatric fracture clinic follow-up appointments.   PATIENTS AND METHODS 295 paired parent and surgeon questionnaire regarding the cost related to a scheduled follow-up appointment for an upper limb fracture in children aged 6-13 years were collected prospectively over 7 months. In addition, the medical appropriateness of the appointment and whether or not the control changed the management of the fracture was investigated.   RESULTS The direct cost of attending a paediatric upper limb fracture clinic was estimated to 48.5 while the cost for society due to productivity loss was 78.4 per consultation. In 89.2% of the cases the surgeons found the appointment necessary, it was deemed unnecessary or inconclusive in 10.6%. The treatment plan was altered in 6.8%, and an extra follow up was scheduled in 5.8%. Fractures of the clavicle were most often regarded as unnecessary to follow up clinically or radiologically by the surgeons.   DISCUSSION The direct cost for the affected families and the costs for society due to productivity loss of paediatric fracture follow-up appointments are noticeable. Although most patients and surgeons deem these controls as valuable, they lead to a change in treatment plan in only 12.6% of the cases. A stringent management protocol can safely reduce the number of clinical and radiographical follow-ups.
This article is the first in a 7-part series (Table 1) that aims to comprehensively describe the current state and future directions of pediatric emergency medicine fellowship training from the essential requirements to considerations for successfully administering and managing a program to the careers that may be anticipated on program completion. This overview article provides a framework for the series.
PURPOSE The epidemiology of pediatric trauma is different in different parts of the world. Some re- searchers suggest falls as the most common mechanism, whereas others report road traffic accidents (RTAs) as the most common cause. The aim of this study is to find out the leading cause of pediatric admissions in Trauma Surgery in New Delhi, India.   METHODS Inpatient data from January 2012 to September 2014 was searched retrospectively in Jai Prakash Narayan Apex Trauma Centre Trauma Registry. All patients aged 18 years or less on index presentation admitted to surgical ward/ICU or later taken transfer by the Department of Trauma Surgery were included. Data were retrieved in predesigned proformas. Information thus compiled was coded in unique alphanumeric codes for each variable and subjected to statistical analysis using SPSS version 21.   RESULTS We had 300 patients over a 33 month period. Among them, 236 (78.6%) were males and 64 (21.3%) females. Overall the predominant cause was RTAs in 132 (43%) patients. On subgroup analysis of up to 12 years age group (n = 147), the most common cause was found to be RTAs again. However, falls showed an incremental upward trend (36.05% in up to 12 age group versus 27% overall), catching up with RTAs (44.89%). Pediatric Trauma Score (PTS) ranged from 0 to 12 with a mean of 8.12 짹 2.022. 223 (74.33%) patients experienced trauma limited to one anatomic region only, whereas 77 (25.66%) patients suffered polytrauma. 288 patients were discharged to home care. Overall, 12 patients expired in the cohort. Median hospital stay was 6 days (range 1-182).   CONCLUSION Pediatric trauma is becoming a cause of increasing concern, especially in the developing countries. The leading cause of admissions in Trauma Surgery is RTAs (43%) as compared to falls from height (27%); however, falls from height are showing an increasing trend as we move to younger age groups. Enhancing road safety alone may not be a lasting solution for prevention of pediatric trauma and local injury patterns must be taken into account when formulating policies to address this unique challenge.
OBJECTIVE We performed a systematic review as part of the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation process to create a consensus on science statement regarding amiodarone or lidocaine during pediatric cardiac arrest for the 2015 International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation's Consensus on Science and Treatment Recommendations.   DATA SOURCES Studies were identified from comprehensive searches in PubMed, Embase, and the Cochrane Library.   STUDY SELECTION Studies eligible for inclusion were randomized controlled and observational studies on the relative clinical effect of amiodarone or lidocaine in cardiac arrest.   DATA EXTRACTION Studies addressing the clinical effect of amiodarone versus lidocaine were extracted and reviewed for inclusion and exclusion criteria by the reviewers. Studies were rigorously analyzed thereafter.   DATA SYNTHESIS We identified three articles addressing lidocaine versus amiodarone in cardiac arrest: 1) a prospective study assessing lidocaine versus amiodarone for refractory ventricular fibrillation in out-of-hospital adults; 2) an observational retrospective cohort study of inpatient pediatric patients with ventricular fibrillation or pulseless ventricular tachycardia who received lidocaine, amiodarone, neither or both; and 3) a prospective study of ventricular tachycardia with a pulse in adults. The first study showed a statistically significant improvement in survival to hospital admission with amiodarone (22.8% vs 12.0%; p = 0.009) and a lack of statistical difference for survival at discharge (p = 0.34). The second article demonstrated 44% return of spontaneous circulation for amiodarone and 64% for lidocaine (odds ratio, 2.02; 1.36-3.03) with no statistical difference for survival at hospital discharge. The third article demonstrated 48.3% arrhythmia termination for amiodarone versus 10.3% for lidocaine (p < 0.05). All were classified as lower quality studies without preference for one agent.   CONCLUSIONS The confidence in effect estimates is so low that International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation felt that a recommendation to use of amiodarone over lidocaine is too speculative; we suggest that amiodarone or lidocaine can be used in the setting of pulseless ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation in infants and children.
For at least 4 decades, the need for improved pediatric residency training in behavioral and mental health has been recognized. The prevalence of behavioral and mental health conditions in children, adolescents, and young adults has increased during that period. However, as recently as 2013, 65% of pediatricians surveyed by the American Academy of Pediatrics indicated that they lacked training in recognizing and treating mental health problems. Current pediatric residency training requirements do not stipulate curricular elements or assessment requirements in behavioral and mental health, and fewer than half of pediatric residents surveyed felt that their competence in dealing with mental health problems was good to excellent. It is time that pediatric residency programs develop the capacity to prepare their residents to meet the behavioral and mental health needs of their patients. Meeting this challenge will require a robust curriculum and effective assessment tools. Ideal training environments will include primary care ambulatory sites that encourage residents to work longitudinally in partnership with general pediatricians and behavioral and mental health trainees and providers; behavioral and mental health training must be integrated into both ambulatory and inpatient experiences. Faculty development will be needed, and in most programs it will be necessary to include nonpediatrician mental health providers to enhance pediatrician faculty expertise. The American Board of Pediatrics intends to partner with other organizations to ensure that pediatric trainees develop the competence needed to meet the behavioral and mental health needs of their patients.
The ORL Section and Board of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery of the European Union of Medical Specialists (UEMS) developed pediatric ORL subspecialty program. The program was created with support and consultation of the European Society of Pediatric Otorhinolaryngology. It is divided into four sections: Pediatric Otology, Pediatric Rhinology and Facial Plastic Surgery, Pediatric Laryngology and Phoniatrics and Pediatric Head and Neck Surgery. After completion of the program, the trainee is supposed to achieve an advanced level of competency. The aim of the program is to serve as a guideline for training centers, enabling them to meet the European Standard as set out by the European Board of UEMS through competency based assessments.
This study investigates the current position of hospital clowns from the perspective of paediatricians and paediatric residents. A total of 14 attending paediatricians and paediatric residents participated in two focus group sessions. Data were analysed using Atlas.ti 5.0. In general, physicians reported positive experiences regarding the interaction between hospital clowns and paediatric patients on the ward. Physicians were more interested in research on children's perception of hospital clowns than in research on the clinical efficacy of hospital clowning. No direct collaboration between physicians and hospital clowns was reported. However, physicians proposed conditions which may streamline their encounters with hospital clowns such as clear communication prior to hospital clown visits, and the condition that visits do not impede medical interventions.   CONCLUSION Overall, paediatricians and paediatric residents view the positive impact on paediatric patients as the most important aspect of hospital clown visits, rather than the clinical efficacy of hospital clowning. In light of the growing number of hospital clowns worldwide, this article provides recommendations for arranging their encounters with paediatricians and paediatric residents to maintain optimal health care. What is known:  Previous studies show a clinically significant pain- and anxiety-reducing effect of hospital clowning in paediatric patients admitted to hospitals or undergoing (invasive) medical procedures.  In general, paediatricians have positive ideas about hospital clowns, aside from personal prejudices. What is new:  This novel study gives deeper insight into day-to-day interaction between paediatricians and hospital clowns on the ward.  This study provides recommendations for clinical practice to arrange encounters between physicians and hospital clowns during hospital clown visits.
PURPOSE To review the epidemiology, clinical features, and treatment of seizures secondary to pediatric brain tumors.   METHOD Literature review.   RESULTS Pediatric brain tumors are the most common solid pediatric tumor and the most common cause of death in pediatric cancer. Seizures are one of the most common symptoms of pediatric brain tumors. Factors associated with increased risk of seizures include supratentorial location, gray matter involvement, low-grade, and certain histological features-especially dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor, ganglioglioma, and oligodendroglioma. Leukemic infiltration of the brain, brain metastases of solid tumors, and brain injury secondary to chemotherapy or radiotherapy can also cause seizures. Mechanisms by which brain tumors cause seizures include metabolic, and neurotransmitter changes in peritumoral brain, morphologic changes - including malformation of cortical development - in peritumoral brain, and presence of peritumoral blood products, gliosis, and necrosis. As there is a high degree of uncertainty on how effective different antiepileptic drugs are for seizures caused by brain tumors, choices are often driven by the interaction and side effect profile. Classic antiepileptic drugs - phenobarbital, phenytoin, or carbamazepine - should be avoided as they may alter the metabolism of chemotherapeutic agents. Newer drugs - valproate, lamotrigine, topiramate, zonisamide, and levetiracetam - may be the preferred option in patients with tumors because of their very limited interaction with chemotherapy.   CONCLUSION Seizures are a common presentation of pediatric brain tumors, especially in supratentorial tumors with gray matter involvement. Antiepileptic drug therapy is usually driven by the interaction and side effect profile and newer drugs with few interactions are generally preferred.
BACKGROUND Family-centered rounds (FCR) have become a leading model for pediatric inpatient rounding. Several studies have examined effective teaching strategies during FCR, but none have focused on promoting resident autonomy.   OBJECTIVE The aim of this study was to identify strategies used by attending physicians to promote resident autonomy during FCR.   METHODS We conducted a qualitative study of attending physicians and residents between December 2012 and February 2013 at an academic children's hospital, where FCR is the standard model for inpatient rounds. Attending physicians participated in individual interviews, and residents participated in 1 of 2 focus groups separated by level of training. Focus group and interview transcripts were coded and themed using qualitative content analysis.   RESULTS Ten attending physicians and 14 residents participated in interviews and focus groups. Attending physician behaviors that promoted resident autonomy included setting clear expectations, preforming a prerounds huddle, deliberate positioning, and delegating teaching responsibilities. These were further categorized as occurring during 1 of 4 distinct periods: (1) at the start of the rotation; (2) before daily FCR; (3) during daily FCR; and (4) after daily FCR.   CONCLUSIONS Residents and attending physicians identified similar strategies to promote resident autonomy during FCR. These strategies occurred during several distinct periods that were not limited to rounds. The results suggest strategies for attending physicians to help balance appropriate and safe patient care with developing resident autonomy in the clinical setting.
BACKGROUND Effective communication is an essential element of medical care and a priority of medical education. Specific interventions to teach communication skills are at the discretion of individual residency programs.   OBJECTIVE We developed the Resident Communication Skills Curriculum (RCSC), a formal curriculum designed to teach trainees the communication skills essential for high-quality practice.   METHODS A multidisciplinary working group contributed to the development of the RCSC, guided by an institutional needs assessment, literature review, and the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education core competencies. The result was a cohesive curriculum that incorporates didactic, role play, and real-life experiences over the course of the entire training period. Methods to assess curricular outcomes included self-reporting, surveys, and periodic faculty evaluations of the residents.   RESULTS Curricular components have been highly rated by residents (3.95-3.97 based on a 4-point Likert scale), and residents' self-reported communication skills demonstrated an improvement over the course of residency in the domains of requesting a consultation, providing effective handoffs, handling conflict, and having difficult conversations (intern median 3.0, graduate median 4.0 based on a 5-point Likert scale, P됤돞.002). Faculty evaluations of residents have also demonstrated improvement over time (intern median 3.0, graduate median 4.5 based on a 5-point Likert scale, P<.001).   CONCLUSIONS A comprehensive, integrated communication skills curriculum for pediatrics residents was implemented, with a multistep evaluative process showing improvement in skills over the course of the residency program. Positive resident evaluations and informal comments from faculty support its general acceptance. The use of existing resources makes this curriculum feasible.
Program directors (PDs) and trainees are often queried regarding the balance of service and education during pediatric residency training. We aimed to use qualitative methods to learn how pediatric residents and PDs define service and education and to identify activities that exemplify these concepts. Focus groups of pediatric residents and PDs were performed and the data qualitatively analyzed. Thematic analysis revealed 4 themes from focus group data: (1) misalignment of the perceived definition of service; (2) agreement about the definition of education; (3) overlapping perceptions of the value of service to training; and (4) additional suggestions for improved integration of education and service. Pediatric residents hold positive definitions of service and believe that service adds value to their education. Importantly, the discovery of heterogeneous definitions of service between pediatric residents and PDs warrants further investigation and may have ramifications for Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education and those responsible for residency curricula.
Advances in medical care may occur when a change in practice incorporates a new treatment or methodology. In surgery, this may involve the translation of a completely novel concept into a new procedure or device or the adaptation of existing treatment approaches or technology to a new clinical application. Regardless of the specifics, innovation should have, as its primary goal, the enhancement of care leading to improved outcomes from the patient's perspective. This policy statement examines innovation as it pertains to surgical care, focusing on some of the definitions that help differentiate applied innovation or innovative therapy from research. The ethical challenges and the potential for conflict of interest for surgeons or institutions seeking to offer innovative surgical therapy are examined. The importance of engaging patients and families as 'innovation partners' to ensure complete transparency of expectations from the patient's and provider's perspectives is also examined, with specific emphasis on cultural competence and mutually respectful approaches. A framework for identifying, evaluating, and safely implementing innovative surgical therapy in children is provided.
Despite widespread therapeutic needs, the majority of medical and surgical devices used in children do not have approval or clearance from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in pediatric populations. The clinical need for devices to diagnose and treat diseases or conditions occurring in children has led to the widespread and necessary practice in pediatric medicine and surgery of using approved devices for 'off-label' or 'physician-directed' applications that are not included in FDA-approved labeling. This practice is common and often appropriate, even with the highest-risk (class III) devices. The legal and regulatory framework used by the FDA for devices is complex, and economic or market barriers to medical and surgical device development for children are significant. Given the need for pediatric medical and surgical devices and the challenges to pediatric device development, off-label use is a necessary and appropriate part of care. In addition, because of the relatively uncommon nature of pediatric conditions, FDA clearance or approval often requires other regulatory pathways (eg, Humanitarian Device Exemption), which can cause confusion among pediatricians and payers about whether a specific use, even of an approved device, is considered experimental. This policy statement describes the appropriateness of off-label use of devices in children; the use of devices approved or cleared through the FDA regulatory processes, including through the Humanitarian Device Exemption; and the important need to increase pediatric device labeling information for all devices and especially those that pose the highest risk to children.
Quality measures are used for a variety of purposes in health care, including clinical care improvement, regulation, accreditation, public reporting, surveillance, and maintenance of certification. Most quality measures are 1 of 3 types: structure, process, or outcome. Health care quality measures should address the domains of quality across the continuum of care and reflect patient and family experience. Measure development for pediatric health care has a number of important challenges, including gaps in the evidence base; the fact that measures for most conditions must be age-specific; the long, resource-intensive development process; and the national focus on measure development for adult conditions. Numerous national organizations focus on the development and application of quality measures, including the Pediatric Quality Measures Program, which is focused solely on the development and implementation of pediatric-specific measures. Once a quality measure is developed for use in national measurement programs, the organization that develops and/or 'stewards' the measure may submit the measure or set of measures for endorsement, which is recognition of the scientific soundness, usability, and relevance of the measure. Quality measures must then be disseminated and applied to improve care. Although pediatric health care providers and child health care institutions alike must continually balance time and resources needed to address multiple reporting requirements, quality measurement is an important tool for advancing high-quality and safe health care for children. This policy statement provides an overview of quality measurement and describes the opportunities for pediatric health care providers to apply quality measures to improve clinical quality and performance in the delivery of pediatric health care services.
In 2009, the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) established the Pediatric Terminology Harmonization Initiative to establish a core library of terms to facilitate the acquisition and sharing of knowledge between pediatric clinical research, practice, and safety reporting. A coalition of partners established a Pediatric Terminology Adverse Event Working Group in 2013 to develop a specific terminology relevant to international pediatric adverse event (AE) reporting. Pediatric specialists with backgrounds in clinical care, research, safety reporting, or informatics, supported by biomedical terminology experts from the National Cancer Institute's Enterprise Vocabulary Services participated. The multinational group developed a working definition of AEs and reviewed concepts (terms, synonyms, and definitions) from 16 pediatric clinical domains. The resulting AE terminology contains >1000 pediatric diseases, disorders, or clinical findings. The terms were tested for proof of concept use in 2 different settings: hospital readmissions and the NICU. The advantages of the AE terminology include ease of adoption due to integration with well-established and internationally accepted biomedical terminologies, a uniquely temporal focus on pediatric health and disease from conception through adolescence, and terms that could be used in both well- and underresourced environments. The AE terminology is available for use without restriction through the National Cancer Institute's Enterprise Vocabulary Services and is fully compatible with, and represented in, the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities. The terminology is intended to mature with use, user feedback, and optimization.
INTRODUCTION Migraine headaches are common in children and adolescents. Current pharmacologic treatment options are limited despite the prevalence and debilitating effects of pediatric migraine. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is an evidence-based practice that focuses on the development of coping strategies and cognitive restructuring to alter the pain experience. Till date, no meta-analysis has been done to examine the use of CBT in pediatric migraine.   METHODS Using the keywords (cognitive behavioral therapy OR cognitive behavior therapy OR cognitive behavioral therapy OR cognitive behavior therapy OR CBT) AND (headache OR migraine), a preliminary search on the PubMed and Ovid database yielded 3841 articles published in English between 1 Jan 1980 and 1 May 2016. Full articles were also reviewed for references of interest. After data extraction, 14 studies were included in the meta-analysis.   RESULTS The results of the meta-analysis well-support the clinical role of CBT in the management of pediatric migraine. The pooled odds ratios of clinically significant improvement, that is, 50% or greater headache activity reduction post-treatment and at follow-up (3 months or later) were OR 9.11 (95% CI: 5.01 to 16.58, P<.001) and OR 9.18 (95% CI: 5.69 to 14.81, P<.001) respectively, demonstrating significant clinical improvement with CBT as compared with wait-list control, placebo, or standard medication. Furthermore, the clinical improvement was stable, even at a 1-year follow-up as evident in some of the studies.   CONCLUSION There is good evidence that CBT is beneficial to children suffering from migraine, and may also augment the efficacy of standard medications such as amitriptyline.
PROBLEM The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education requires training that enhances resident teaching skills. Despite this requirement, many residency training programs struggle to implement effective resident-as-teacher (RAT) curricula, particularly within the context of the 80-hour resident workweek.   APPROACH In 2013, the authors developed and evaluated an intensive one-day RAT curriculum using a flipped classroom approach. Twenty-nine second-year residents participated in daylong RAT sessions. The curriculum included four 1-hour workshops focusing on adult learning principles, giving feedback, teaching a skill, and orienting a learner. Each workshop, preceded by independent reading, featured peer co-teaching, application, and feedback. The authors evaluated the curriculum using pre- and postworkshop objective structured teaching examinations (OSTEs) and attitudinal and self-efficacy teaching questionnaires.   OUTCOMES Residents demonstrated statistically significant improvements in performance between pre- and postworkshop OSTEs on each of three core skills: giving feedback (P = .005), orienting a learner (P < .001), and teaching a skill (P < .001). Residents expressed positive attitudes surrounding teaching on the retrospective pre-post attitudinal instrument (P < .001) and rated themselves as more effective teachers (P < .001) after the training.   NEXT STEPS The authors have demonstrated that the flipped classroom approach is an efficient and effective method for training residents to improve teaching skills, especially in an era of work hour restrictions. They have committed to the continuation of this curriculum and are planning to include assessment of its long-term effects on resident behavior change and educational outcomes.
Halstedian method of surgical training has been the mainstay of surgical education for many decades. Onsite knowledge sources in surgery have traditionally been textbooks, which are often a number of years out of date or teaching rounds with a Professor or senior colleague that enables a small number of trainees to benefit from. Congresses have been a good way of learning new developments in the field, but they often require travelling and are very costly. We have identified web-based education as a means of linking experts with trainees, regardless of their geographic location and often without requiring any substantial capital. Web meetings have been running on a weekly basis from University of Cape Town, Division of Paediatric Surgery since 2010. This enabled speakers from Australia to Venezuela, across the globe share their expertise with individuals and paediatric surgical teams both in resource limited and developed countries. Attendance to meetings has grown significantly as the users become more familiar with the meeting software and also internet connection and availability of bandwidth increased. Adobe Connect짰 has been the main platform we used with its functions, including camera and video transmission, sharing of presentations, and ease of creating polls to encourage participant enrolment. Recordings are also made available and viewed over 300 times/month through the website www.surgicalskills.co.za . Other applications using the same platform has been explored which included transfer of hands on surgical skills, such as laparoscopy, burns surgery and fibre optic endoscopy as well as conducting administrative meetings for professional societies. Web meetings have added another dimension to surgical education. This will likely grow more in the future, and transform peer to peer knowledge transfer into a global environment.
Phenomenon: International medical graduates (IMGs) play a key role in host countries' health systems but face unique challenges, which makes effective, tailored support for IMGs essential. Prior literature describing the acculturation needs of IMGs focused primarily on communication content and style. We conducted a qualitative study to explore acculturation that might be specific to IMG residents who care for children.   APPROACH In a study conducted from November 2011 to April 2012, we performed four 90-minute semistructured focus groups with 26 pediatric IMG residents from 12 countries. The focus group transcripts were analyzed using open and focused coding methodology.   FINDINGS The focus groups and subsequent analysis demonstrated that pediatric IMG residents' socialization to their home culture impacts their transition to practice in the United States; they must adjust not only to a U.S. culture, different from their own, but also to the culture of medicine in the United States. We identified the following new acculturation themes: understanding the education system and family structure, social determinants of health, communication with African American parents, contraception, physician handoffs, physicians' role in prevention, adolescent health, and physicians' role in child advocacy. We further highlight the acculturation challenges faced by pediatric IMG residents and offer brief recommendations for the creation of a deliberate acculturation curriculum for pediatric IMG residents. Insight: Residency training is a unique period in physicians' personal and professional development and can be particularly challenging for IMGs. There is a significant gap in the identified acculturation needs and the current curricula available to IMG residents who care for children.
OBJECTIVE To provide an overview of non-parenteral clonidine formulations and assess the feasibility of their use for paediatric sedation.   METHODS A literature search was conducted using electronic databases and a combination of search terms. Forty articles met the inclusion criteria. Publications were grouped into different dosage forms and assessed for their potential application for sedation of children in intensive care.   KEY FINDINGS Several routes of clonidine administration have been investigated for numerous indications in children, including perioperative sedation and analgesia. These include oral liquids, tablets, oral transmucosal systems, nasal sprays and rectal suspensions. Conflicting studies on oral transmucosal clonidine formulations suggest that further research is required to fully establish efficacy. Nasal sprays and rectal suspensions have the advantages of rapid onset of action and potential for dose flexibility, but predictable absorption is difficult to obtain.   CONCLUSIONS Provided age-appropriate strengths are available, intravenous formulations remain the most predictable in terms of bioavailability and flexible in terms of dose adjustment. However, as with all routes, down-titration is difficult given the long half-life of clonidine. Oral transmucosal systems, nasal sprays and rectal suspensions have potential in a less acute setting, but significant clinical work is required to elucidate a full pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profile.
Objective Neonatal seizures in the first 28혻days of life often reflect underlying brain injury or abnormalities, and measure the quality of perinatal care in out-of-hospital births. Using the 2003 revision of birth certificates only, three studies reported more neonatal seizures recorded among home births 땚r혻planned out-of-hospital births compared to hospital births. However, the validity of recording neonatal seizures or serious neurologic dysfunction across birth settings in birth certificates has not been evaluated. We aimed to validate seizure recording in birth certificates across birth settings using multiple datasets. Methods We examined checkbox items 'seizures' and 'seizure or serious neurologic dysfunction' in the 1989 and 2003 revisions of birth certificates in South Carolina from 1996 to 2013. Gold standards were ICD-9-CM codes 779.0, 345.X, and 780.3 in either hospital discharge abstracts or Medicaid encounters jointly. Results Sensitivity, positive predictive value, false positive rate, and the kappa statistic of neonatal seizures recording were 7%, 66%, 34%, and 0.12 for the 2003 revision of birth certificates in 547,177 hospital births from 2004 to 2013 and 5%, 33%, 67%, and 0.09 for the 1998 revision in 396,776 hospital births from 1996 to 2003, and 0, 0, 100%, -0.002 among 660 intended home births from 2004 to 2013 and 920 home births from 1996 to 2003, respectively. Conclusions for Practice Despite slight improvement across revisions, South Carolina birth certificates under-reported or falsely reported seizures among hospital births and especially home births. Birth certificates alone should not be used to measure neonatal seizures or serious neurologic dysfunction.
Among adults, living donor kidney transplant rates began declining in the United States after 2004 but whether a similar decline is occurring in the pediatric candidates has not been well studied. Share 35, a change in allocation rules implemented in October of 2005, may also have influenced rates of living donation. We sought to determine whether a decline in rates was occurring in pediatric candidates and whether the Share 35 program was the cause of the decline. All children listed for a kidney transplant or transplanted with a living donor without listing between 1996 and 2011 were identified in the United States (N=14혻911) of which 6046 had received a living donor transplant during follow-up. Kaplan-Meier analysis showed a decline in living donor rates in candidates listed after 2001. Logistic regression analysis for living donor kidney transplantation confirmed the timing of the drop but also showed that changes in candidate demographics and center listing practices were impacting rates. A large drop in parental donation was the main cause for the drop. The rate of living donor transplant among pediatric candidates declined after 2001 predating by 4혻years the implementation of Share 35, suggesting that factors other than changes in allocation rules are responsible for the decline.
This study sought to determine whether there is an evidence base for drug manipulation to obtain the required dose, a common feature of paediatric clinical practice. A systematic review of the data sources, PubMed, EMBASE, CINAHL, IPA and the Cochrane database of systematic reviews, was used. Studies that considered the dose accuracy of manipulated medicines of any dosage form, evidence of safety or harm, bioavailability, patient experience, tolerability, contamination and comparison of methods of manipulation were included. Case studies and letters were excluded. Fifty studies were eligible for inclusion, 49 of which involved tablets being cut, split, crushed or dispersed. The remaining one study involved the manipulation of suppositories of one drug. No eligible studies concerning manipulation of oral capsules or liquids, rectal enemas, nebuliser solutions, injections or transdermal patches were identified. Twenty four of the tablet studies considered dose accuracy using weight and/or drug content. In studies that considered weight using adapted pharmacopoeial specifications, the percentage of halved tablets meeting these specifications ranged from 30% to 100%. Eighteen studies investigated bioavailability, pharmacokinetics or clinical outcomes following manipulations which included nine delayed or modified release formulations. In each of these nine studies the entirety of the dosage form was administered. Only one of the 18 studies was identified where drugs were manipulated to obtain a proportion of the dosage form, and that proportion administered. The five studies that considered patient perception found that having to manipulate the tablets did not have a negative impact on adherence. Of the 49 studies only two studies reported investigating children. This review yielded limited evidence to support manipulation of medicines for children. The results cannot be extrapolated between dosage forms, methods of manipulation or between different brands of the same drug.
Youth in the criminal justice system commonly suffer from multiple medical and psychological health problems. Because they likely live in lower socioeconomic environments, the medical care they receive through the justice system might be their only recent medical care and can result in the discovery of health problems or chronic illnesses that must be managed while in the system and beyond. We describe the case of an adolescent diagnosed with a serious chronic disease during his time in an urban detention center to illustrate how health workers and justice staff must use a team approach in caring for this vulnerable population of children. Barriers to appropriate care, including social and systems-level challenges, are discussed. The lessons learned in this case can be applied more broadly to other vulnerable youth populations, including those in foster care and impoverished communities where the primary care pediatrician (or other assigned pediatric specialist) is both the leader of the medical team and an advocate for quality care.
WHAT IS KNOWN AND OBJECTIVE Treatment adherence is an essential component in ensuring best outcomes in the management of paediatric cancers. Compared to the adult population, treatment adherence in the paediatric population is a more complex subject which involves unique dimensions. In this study, we aimed to systematically review the literature to identify factors associated with treatment adherence in the paediatric oncology population.   METHODS A literature search was carried out using related keywords on electronic databases.   RESULTS AND DISCUSSION A total of 1036 articles were reviewed, and 39 articles were found to be relevant. A comprehensive review of these articles identified 17 factors that influence adherence. These factors were classified into five major categories: patient-/caregiver-related factors; therapy-related factors; condition-related factors; health system-related factors; and social/economic factors. A baby bear model was proposed to better visualize these five categories that affect treatment adherence, and a framework of questions was designed to help clinicians identify those at risk of non-adherence for early intervention.   WHAT IS NEW AND CONCLUSION Seventeen factors reviewed were categorized into five main categories, namely patient-/caregiver-related factors, therapy-related factors, condition-related factors, health system factors and social/economic factors, as causes for poor medication adherence in the paediatric oncology population. Clinicians need to be aware that these factors can interact to influence treatment adherence and that some factors may be more relevant in specific contexts (e.g. third world countries, minority groups). The baby bear model is presented to help understand the issues affecting adherence in the paediatric oncology population, and a framework of questions is proposed to help clinicians identify patients at risk of non-adherence.
AIM To develop and test a new tool to assess the avoidability of adverse drug reactions that is suitable for use in paediatrics but which is also applicable to a variety of other settings.   METHODS The study involved multiple phases. Preliminary work involved using the Hallas scale and a modification of the existing Hallas scale, to assess two different sets of adverse drug reaction (ADR) case reports. Phase 1 defined, modified and refined a new tool using multidisciplinary teams. Phase 2 involved the assessment of 50 ADR case reports from a prospective study of paediatric inpatients by individual assessors. Phase 3 compared assessments with the new tool for individuals and groups in comparison to the 'gold standard' (the avoidability outcome set by a panel of senior investigators: an experienced clinical pharmacologist, paediatrician and pharmacist).   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Inter-rater reliability (IRR), measure of disagreement and utilization of avoidability categories.   RESULTS Preliminary work-Pilot phase: results for the original Hallas cases were fair and pairwise kappa scores ranged from 0.21 to 0.36. Results for the modified Hallas cases were poor, pairwise kappa scores ranged from 0.06 to 0.16. Phase 1: on initial use of the new tool, agreement between the two multidisciplinary groups was found on 13/20 cases with a kappa score of 0.29 (95% CI -0.04 to 0.62). Phase 2: the assessment of 50 ADR case reports by six individual reviewers yielded pairwise kappa scores ranging from poor to good 0.12 to 0.75 and percentage exact agreement (%EA) ranged from 52-90%. Phase 3: Percentage exact agreement ranged from 35-70%. Overall, individuals had better agreement with the 'gold standard'.   CONCLUSION Avoidability assessment is feasible but needs careful attention to methods. The Liverpool ADR avoidability assessment tool showed mixed IRR. We have developed and validated a method for assessing the avoidability of ADRs that is transparent, more objective than previous methods and that can be used by individuals or groups.
Patients' perceived satisfaction is a key performance index of the quality health care service. Good communication has been found to increase patient's perceived satisfaction. The purpose of this study was to examine the impact of the prominent themes arising from clinician-patient conversations on the caregiver's perceived quality of communication during paediatric dental visits. 162 video recordings of clinical dental consultations for 62 cases attending the Paediatric Dentistry Clinic of The Prince Philip Dental Hospital in Hong Kong were captured and transcribed. The patients' demographic information and the caregiver's perceived quality of communication with the clinicians were recorded using the 16-item Dental Patient Feedback on Consultation skills questionnaires. Visual text analytics (Leximancer) indicated five prominent themes 'disease / treatment', 'treatment procedure related instructions', 'preparation for examination', 'positive reinforcement / reassurance', and 'family / social history' from the clinician-patient conversation of the recorded videos, with 60.2% of the total variance in concept words in this study explained through principal components analysis. Significant variation in perceived quality of communication was noted in five variables regarding the prominent theme 'Positive reinforcement / reassurance': 'number of related words' (p = 0.002), 'number of related utterances' (p = 0.001), 'percentage of the related words in total number of words' (p = 0.005), 'percentage of the related utterances in total number of utterances' (p = 0.035) and 'percentage of time spent in total time duration' (p = 0.023). Clinicians were perceived to be more patient-centered and empathetic if a larger proportion of their conversation showed positive reinforcement and reassurance via using related key words. Care-giver's involvement, such as clinicians' mention of the parent, was also seen as critical to perceptions of quality clinical experience. The study reveals the potential of the application of visual text analytics software in clinical consultations with implications for professional development regarding clinicians' communication skills for improving patients' clinical experiences and treatment satisfaction.
As concerns over health care-related harms and costs continue to mount, efforts to identify and combat medical overuse are needed. Although much of the recent attention has focused on health care for adults, children are also harmed by overuse. Using a structured PubMed search and manual tables of contents review, we identified important articles on pediatric overuse published in 2015. These articles were evaluated according to the quality of the methods, the magnitude of clinical effect, and the number of patients potentially affected and were categorized into overdiagnosis, overtreatment, and overutilization. Overdiagnosis: Findings included evidence for overdiagnosis of hypoxemia in children with bronchiolitis and skull fractures in children suffering minor head injuries. Overtreatment: Findings included evidence that up to 85% of hospitalized children with radiographic pneumonia may not have a bacterial etiology; many children are receiving prolonged intravenous antibiotic therapy for osteomyelitis although oral therapy is equally effective; antidepressant medication for adolescents and nebulized hypertonic saline for bronchiolitis appear to be ineffective; and thresholds for treatment of hyperbilirubinemia may be too low. Overutilization: Findings suggested that the frequency of head circumference screening could be relaxed; large reductions in abdominal computed tomography testing for appendicitis appear to have been safe and effective; and overreliance on C-reactive protein levels in neonatal early onset sepsis appears to extend hospital length-of-stay.
The study explores female caregivers' reflections on their relationship with their child (2-5 years old) and the development of their child's dietary and physical activity behaviors. Five, 90-minute semistructured focus groups were conducted to inquire about children's growth, eating behaviors and routines, physical activity, personality, and the parent-child relationship. Nineteen female caregivers diverse in race/ethnicity, age, and educational attainment participated. Participants reported that they maintained a schedule, but needed to be flexible to accommodate daily responsibilities. Family, social factors, and day care routines were influences on their children's behaviors. The main physical activity barriers were safety and time constraints. Guidance from pediatric primary care providers aimed at supporting female caregivers to build a positive foundation in their parent-child relationship, and to adopt and model healthy diet and physical activity behaviors that are respectful of schedules and barriers should be a priority for childhood obesity prevention.
OBJECTIVES The objective of this study was to analyze the characteristic and the prognostic factors of in-hospital pediatric cardiac arrest (CA) in a public hospital Honduras.   METHODS A prospective observational study was performed on pediatric in-hospital CA as a part of a multicenter international study. One hundred forty-six children were studied. The primary end point was survival at hospital discharge. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses were performed to assess the influence of each factor on mortality.   RESULTS Cardiac arrest occurred in the emergency department in 66.9%. Respiratory diseases and sepsis were predominant causes of CA. Return of spontaneous circulation was achieved in 60% of patients, and 22.6% survived to hospital discharge. The factors related with mortality were nonrespiratory cause of CA (odds ratio [OR], 2.55; P = 0.045), adrenaline administration (OR, 4.96; P = 0.008), and a duration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation more than 10 minutes (OR, 3.40; P = 0.012).   CONCLUSIONS In-hospital CA in children in a developing country has low survival. Patients with nonrespiratory causes and those who need adrenaline administration and prolonged resuscitation had worse prognosis.
AIMS OF THE STUDY We hypothesized that there has been an increase in the number of successful litigation claims in pediatric surgery in England. Our aim was to report the incidence, causes, and costs of clinical negligence claims against the National Health Service (NHS) in relation to pediatric surgery.   MATERIALS AND METHODS We queried the NHS Litigation Authority (NHSLA) on litigation claims among children undergoing pediatric surgery in England (2004-2012). We decided a priori to only examine closed cases (decision and payment made). Data included year of claim, year of payment of claim, payment per claim, paid-to-closed ratio, and severity of outcome of clinical incident.   RESULTS Out of 112 clinical negligence claims in pediatric surgery, 93 (83%) were finalized-73 (65%) were settled and damages paid to the claimant and 20 (18%) were closed with no payment, and 19 (17%) remain open. The median payment was 짙13,537 (600-500,000) and median total cost borne by NHSLA was 짙31,445 (600-730,202). Claims were lodged at a median interval of 2 (0-13) years from time of occurrence with 55 (75%) cases being settled within the 3 years of being received. The commonest reasons for claims were postoperative complications (n=20, 28%), delayed treatment (n=16, 22%), and/or diagnosis (n=14, 19%). Out of 73, 17 (23%) closed claims resulted in case fatality. Conclusion: Two-thirds of all claims in pediatric surgery resulted in payment to claimant, and the commonest reasons for claims were postoperative complications, delayed treatment, and/or diagnosis. Nearly a quarter of successful claims were in cases where negligence resulted in case fatality. Pediatric surgeons should be aware of common diagnostic and treatment shortfalls as high-risk areas of increased susceptibility to clinical negligence claims.
BACKGROUND Pediatric health research is important for improving the health and well-being of children and their families. To foster the development of physicians' research competencies, it is vital to integrate practical and context-specific research training into residency programs.   PURPOSE To describe the development of a resident research training program at one tertiary care pediatric academic health sciences center in Ontario, Canada.   METHODS We surveyed residents and pediatricians/research staff to establish the need and content for a resident research training program.   RESULTS Residents and resident research supervisors agreed or strongly agreed that research training is important for residents. However, few residents and supervisors believed that their academic health sciences center provided adequate training and resources to support resident research. As such, an online resident research training program was established. Residents and supervisors agreed that the program should focus on the following topics: 1) critically evaluating research literature, 2) writing a research proposal, 3) submitting an application for research funding, and 4) writing a manuscript.   DISCUSSION This highly accessible, context-specific, and inexpensive online program model may be of interest and benefit to other residency programs as a means to enhance residents' scholarly roles. A formal evaluation of the research training program is now underway.
Although guidelines for routine follow-up of pacemakers and implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) are available for adults, minimal data supports their appropriateness in pediatrics and congenital heart disease. This study aimed to define current practices of cardiac rhythm device (CRD) follow-up among pediatric electrophysiologists. Pediatric and Congenital EP Society (PACES) members were surveyed regarding frequency of CRD in-person follow-up as well as transtelephonic monitoring (TTM) and remote monitoring (RM) practices. If home monitoring was used, the effect on in-person follow-up was also evaluated. A total of 106 PACES members responded to the survey. Uncomplicated pacemaker and ICD patients were both followed in-person at a median interval of 6 months (range 1-12 months). TTM was utilized by 67 % of responders (median interval 3 months; range 1-6 months), while RM was used by 87 % for pacemakers (median interval 3 months; range 1-6 months) and 92 % for ICDs (median interval 3 months; range 2 weeks-6 months). When TTM was used, 21 % of responders reduced their frequency of pacemaker clinic visits. In comparison, RM reduced the frequency of clinic visits for pacemakers and ICDs in 32 and 31 % of responders, respectively. Patient age was an independent factor in determining CRD follow-up for 49 % of responders. While CRD follow-up by pediatric electrophysiologists in general follows adult guidelines, individual practices widely vary. In contrast to published recommendations in adults, TTM and RM utilization does not reduce the frequency of in-person visits for the majority of pediatric electrophysiologists.
BACKGROUND Little is known about adverse events (AEs) in pediatric patients. Record review is a common methodology for identifying AEs, but in pediatrics the record review tools generally have limited focus. The aim of the present study was to develop a broadly applicable record review tool to identify AEs in pediatric inpatients.   METHODS Using a broad literature review and expert opinion with a modified Delphi process, a pediatric trigger tool with 88 triggers, definitions, and descriptions including AE preventability decision support was developed and tested in a random sample of 600 hospitalized pediatric patients admitted in 2010 to a single university children's hospital. Four registered nurse-physician teams performed complete two-stage retrospective reviews of 150 records each from either neonatal, surgical/orthopedic, medicine, or emergency medicine units.   RESULTS Registered nurse review identified 296 of 600 records with triggers indicating potential AEs. Records (n=121) with only false positive triggers not indicating any potential AEs were not forwarded to the next review stage. On subsequent physician review, 204 (34.0%) of patients were found to have had 563 AEs, range 1-27 AEs/patient. A total of 442 preventable AEs were found in 161 patients (26.8%), range 1-22. Overall, triggers were found 3,598 times in 417 (69.5%) records, with a mean of 6 (median 1, range 0-176) triggers per patient. The overall positive predictive value of the triggers was 22.9%, (range 0.0-100.0%). The final pediatric trigger tool, developed with a second Delphi round, required 29 triggers.   CONCLUSIONS AEs are common in pediatric patients and most are preventable. The main contributions of this study are to further develop and adapt trigger definitions, including AE preventability decision support, to introduce new triggers in pediatric care, as well as to apply pediatric triggers in different clinical specialties. Our findings resulted in a national pediatric trigger tool, and might also be adapted internationally. The pediatric trigger tool can help healthcare organizations to measure and analyze the AEs occurring in hospitalized children in order to improve patient safety.
OBJECTIVE To examine racial differences in rates of screening parents for cigarette smoking during pediatric outpatient visits and to determine if a parental tobacco control intervention mitigates racial variation in whether cigarette smoking is addressed.   METHODS As part of the Clinical Effort Against Secondhand Smoke Exposure (CEASE) randomized controlled trial, exit interviews were conducted with parents at 10 control and 10 intervention pediatric practices nationally. Parents were asked to report if during the visit did anyone ask if they smoke cigarettes. A generalized linear mixed model was used to estimate the effect of black vs white race on asking parents about cigarette smoking.   RESULTS Among 17,692 parents screened at the exit interview, the proportion of black parents who were current smokers (16%) was lower than the proportion of white parents who smoked (20%) (P < .001). In control group practices, black parents were more likely to be asked (adjusted risk ratio 1.23; 95% confidence interval 1.08, 1.40) about cigarette smoking by pediatricians than whites. In intervention group practices both black and white parents were more likely to be asked about smoking than those in control practices and there was no significant difference between black and white parents in the likelihood of being asked (adjusted risk ratio 1.01; 95% confidence interval 0.93, 1.09).   CONCLUSIONS Although a smaller proportion of black parents in control practices smoked than white, black parents were more likely to be asked by pediatricians about smoking. The CEASE intervention was associated with higher levels of screening for smoking for both black and white parents.
INTRODUCTION We believe that the demand for paediatric neurology (PN) care has increased over the past decade, and that reasons for requesting consultations have also changed. The objective of this study is to complete a registry study to profile the demand for PN care in 2013 and compare results to those from a study performed in 2002.   METHODS A prospective registry of PN healthcare activities was completed at Hospital Universitario de Getafe in 2013. Results were compared with those from a prospective registry study conducted in 2002.   RESULTS The number of visits increased from 1,300 in 2002 to 1,982 in 2013 (a 52.46% increase), and from 32.6 visits per 1,000 children to 57.48 (a 76.32% increase). Outpatient consultations accounted for 92.2% of all PN consultations in 2013. Currently, attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is the most frequent diagnosis (27.6% in 2013 vs. 8.1% in 2002). Although the percentage of headache consultations has decreased (19% in 2013 vs. 22% in 2002), headache was still the most common reason for an initial visit in 2013 (32.1%), followed by ADHD (19.1%). Epilepsy remains the most frequent diagnosis in hospitalised patients (30.3% in 2013 vs. 36.7% in 2002).   CONCLUSIONS PN is fundamentally an outpatient activity that has increased considerably in recent years. This increase is mainly due to neurodevelopmental disorders, especially ADHD. We might state that the role of ADHD in PN is comparable to that of dementia in general neurology.
The international development cooperation in child health arouses special interest in paediatric settings. In the last 10 10 years or so, new evidence has been presented on factors associated with morbidity and mortality in the first years of life in the least developed countries. This greater knowledge on the causes of health problems and possible responses in the form of interventions with impact, leads to the need to disseminate this information among concerned professional pediatricians. Serious efforts are needed to get a deeper insight into matters related to global child health and encourage pediatricians to be aware and participate in these processes. This article aims to provide a social pediatric approach towards international cooperation and child health-related matters.
OBJECTIVES To evaluate the impact of implementing a multifaceted intervention based on the WHO Pocketbook of Hospital Care for Children on the quality of case management of common childhood illnesses in hospitals in Lao PDR.   METHODS The quality of case management of four sentinel conditions was assessed in three central hospitals before and after the implementation of the WHO Pocketbook as part of a broader mixed-methods study. Data on performance of key steps in case management in more than 600 admissions were collected by medical record abstraction pre- and post-intervention, and change was measured according to the proportion of cases which key steps were performed as well as an overall score of case management for each condition.   RESULTS Improvements in mean case management scores were observed post-intervention for three of the four conditions, with the greatest change in pneumonia (53-91%), followed by diarrhoea and low birthweight. Rational drug prescribing, appropriate use of IV fluids and appropriate monitoring all occurred more frequently post-intervention. Non-recommended practices such as prescription of antitussives became less frequent.   CONCLUSIONS A multifaceted intervention based on the WHO Pocketbook of Hospital Care for children led to better paediatric care in central Lao hospitals. The degree of improvement was dependent on the condition assessed.
BACKGROUND Cardiac surgical procedures are complex and require the coordinated action of many. This creates the potential for small failures that could be the substrate for subsequent morbidity or mortality. High-reliability science suggests that preoccupation with small failures can lead to improved outcomes.   STUDY DESIGN Failures of all magnitudes (ie, events) were captured within the pediatric cardiac operating room starting with a single surgeon in April 2008. As the surgical team became more familiar with the process, failure recording was extended to all surgeons and all surgical procedures performed until the conclusion of the study in December 2010. New recording processes were developed and used on a rolling basis during this study.   RESULTS With systematic capture, event rates increased (from occurring within 20% to 50% of operative procedures). Although we identified 9 recurrent patterns, 2 categories (ie, Equipment and Patient Instability) accounted for almost half of the events (45%). The greatest number of events occurred during the prebypass period (40.2%), compared with bypass (20.1%) and postbypass (32.3%) periods. These events were mainly difficulties in access (31.8%), equipment (42.4%), and patient instability (33.3%) in each of the epochs, respectively. Of all events, 7.3% occurred during nonbypass cases, 30.6% of these were communication events. Implementation of this initiative led to recognition of major system-wide issues (eg, need for change in the blood-product acquisition process).   CONCLUSIONS Preoccupation with all failures in the operating room can reveal important information about the operating room and perioperative microenvironment that can prompt substantive process changes both locally and within the larger health system.
INTRODUCTION US Army pediatricians regularly deploy for 6 to 12 months or longer and many are deployed multiple times during their career. Prolonged breaks in pediatric clinical practice may result in skill degradation, requiring a physician reentry process to prepare pediatricians to return to clinical practice. This study sought to identify which specific pediatric clinical skills were felt to be most affected by deployment.   METHODS Army pediatricians on active duty between January 2012 and March 2012 were surveyed via e-mail to determine their comfort level and experience with clinical encounters and procedural skills prior to and after military deployment.   RESULTS Eighty-three pediatricians were eligible, and 75 responded (90% response rate). Of those received, 65 surveys (78%) were complete and included in the statistical analysis. Over half (54%) of the respondents were deployed longer than 6 months, and 32% were deployed for 12 months or longer. The largest changes in reported comfort were seen in neonatal, pediatric, and adolescent acute care and neonatal routine care, including neonatal and pediatric procedures. There was a significant negative correlation (r = .64; p = .003) between provider's reported exposure to neonatal and pediatric clinical encounters during deployment and provider's comfort with those clinical encounters after deployment.   DISCUSSION US Army pediatricians are required to deploy for extended periods of time and have limited opportunities to practice the full range of their pediatric skills. This break in clinical practice is associated with a significant decline in perceived comfort with both routine and acute pediatric care.
This paper presents an updated and revised summary of the 'core data set' that has been proposed to be recorded and reported in all clinical trials on infant nutrition by the recently formed Consensus Group on Outcome Measures Made in Paediatric Enteral Nutrition Clinical Trials (COMMENT). This core data set was developed based on a previous proposal by the European Society for Paediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition (ESPGHAN) Committee on Nutrition in 2003. It comprises confidential data to identify subjects and facilitate contact for further follow-up, data to characterize the cohort studied and data on withdrawals from the study, and some additional core data for all nutrition studies on preterm infants. We recommend that all studies on nutrition in infancy should collect and report this core data set to facilitate interpretation and comparison of results from clinical studies, and of systematic data evaluation and meta-analyses. Editors of journals publishing such reports are encouraged to require the reporting of the minimum data set described here either in the main body of the publication or as supplementary online material.
Despite limited evidence from the literature surrounding safety or efficacy, butalbital-containing medicines (BCMs) have maintained their rank as 'go-to' prescribed migraine and headache relief drugs in the United States, despite bans on these barbiturates in Germany and other European countries. Providers at the Pediatric Headache Program at Boston Children's Hospital recommend that clinicians prescribe triptan-based medications instead of BCMs, given the known negative side effects of BCMs on the general population, and the uncertain longitudinal trajectory of BCMs on developing brains.
BACKGROUND Families of children requiring nutrition support may be interested in providing blenderized food by gastrostomy tube (BFGT). Some registered dietitians (RDs) recommend partial or full BFGT for children with tube feeding intolerance who are unresponsive to standard interventions. There is little published information on the safety and efficacy of BFGT feeding. The purpose of this survey was to elicit experiences of pediatric RDs with BFGT in clinical practices.   METHODS A survey instrument was distributed to members of the Pediatric Nutrition Practice Group to report experiences of BFGT in clinical practice.   RESULTS Response rate was 9.9% of total members (N = 2,448). Over half (58%) of the 244 respondents use and recommend BFGT. Reasons for use included parent request (70.2%), tube feeding intolerance (22.9%), and inability to obtain commercial formula (6.1%). Seventy-nine percent reported an overall positive outcome with BFGT. Older RDs were more familiar with BFGT but less likely to use it compared with younger RDs who use BFGT or wanted more information (P = .007). Twelve percent did not use or recommend BFGT due to concerns about bacterial contamination, unknown nutrient composition, inability to provide follow-up, and/or facility policy violations. Twenty-eight percent were familiar with BFGT but wanted more information.   CONCLUSIONS Interest in BFGT is largely parent-driven or explored as an option for children with tube feeding intolerance. Almost 80% of RDs using this feeding substrate report overall positive outcomes, but 28% indicate they want more information on using BFGT in clinical practice.
One of the fathers of pediatric surgery in France, Louis Ombr챕danne (1871-1956) was a great plastic surgeon. During his residency he was initiated to plastic surgery by Charles N챕laton (1851-1911). Both wrote two books: 'La rhinoplastie' and 'Les autoplasties', taking stock of these techniques in the early 20th century. In 1906, he was the first to describe the pectoral muscle flap for immediate breast reconstruction after mastectomy. He used this flap in conjunction with an axillo thoracic flap. From 1908 to 1941, Louis Ombr챕danne practised pediatric surgery, most of which was devoted in reconstruction of congenital and acquire anomalies. From 1924혻to혻1941, he was Professor of pediatric surgery at the hospital Enfants-Malades in Paris. In 1907, Louis Ombr챕danne created a prototype of an ether inhaler as a safe anesthetic device. The device was successfully used for fifty years in Europe.
BACKGROUND Worldwide, 6.6 million children die each year, partly due to a failure to recognize and treat acutely ill children. Programs that improve provider recognition and treatment initiation may improve child survival.   OBJECTIVES Describe provider characteristics and hospital resources during a contextualized pediatric resuscitation training program in Botswana and determine if training impacts provider knowledge retention.   DESIGN/METHODS The American Heart Association's Pediatric Emergency Assessment Recognition and Stabilization (PEARS) course was contextualized to Botswana resources and practice guidelines in this observational study. A cohort of facility-based nurses (FBN) was assessed prior to and 1-month following training. Survey tools assessed provider characteristics, cognitive knowledge and confidence and hospital pediatric resources. Data analysis utilized Fisher's exact, Chi-square, Wilcoxon rank-sum and linear regression where appropriate.   RESULTS 61 healthcare providers (89% FBNs, 11% physicians) successfully completed PEARS training. Referral facilities had more pediatric specific equipment and high-flow oxygen. Median frequency of pediatric resuscitation was higher in referral compared to district level FBN's (5 [3,10] vs. 2 [1,3] p=0.007). While 50% of FBN's had previous resuscitation training, none was pediatric specific. Median provider confidence improved significantly after training (3.8/5 vs. 4.7/5, p<0.001), as did knowledge of correct management of acute pneumonia and diarrhea (44% vs. 100%, p<0.001, 6% vs. 67%, p<0.001, respectively).   CONCLUSION FBN's in Botswana report frequent resuscitation of ill children but low baseline training. Provider knowledge for recognition and initial treatment of respiratory distress and shock is low. Contextualized training significantly increased FBN provider confidence and knowledge retention 1-month after training.
It has been 50 years since Kempe et al. published 'The Battered Child Syndrome', describing harm from inflicted injury mechanisms derived from parents and care givers. Since then, there has emerged a rapidly expanding literature on paediatric forensic medicine and child protection, which has offered new insights into injury mechanisms, informed us of the sequelae of abuse and neglect, aided diagnosis and guided clinical practice in the treatment and management of children who become involved in the child protection system. Through the scrutiny of government inquiries and at times uncomfortable media exposure, there have been improvements in child protection and forensic practices resulting in recognition of need for specialised forensic training, improved funding, development of resources and development of professional standards that support accountable, objective, safe and robust practice. From the perspective of an Australian child protection paediatrician, this paper chronicles some of the most significant and at times controversial research in the last 50 years in child protection that have played a key role in shaping our current understanding of child abuse and neglect.
BACKGROUND Pediatricians are physicians trained to provide comprehensive nonsurgical health care for children, but parents may consult other specialists when seeking medical help for their children. This study was designed to analyze the role of pediatricians and the changes in the patterns of ambulatory visits among different specialties for children under the age of 18 years in Taiwan during the past 13 years.   METHODS Data on ambulatory visits of children aged 0-17 years from 1999 to 2011 were retrieved from the National Health Insurance Research Database. The physician's specialty, level of the hospital, year of visit, age of the patient, and diagnoses of each ambulatory visit were analyzed. Four of the most commonly visited specialties-pediatrics, otolaryngology, family medicine, and internal medicine-were compared. The yearly trend of ambulatory visits to different specialties, difference in various age groups, influence of hospital levels, and the top 10 diagnoses were analyzed.   RESULTS A total of 1,618,033 ambulatory visits were identified and enrolled into our study. A comparison of the proportions of ambulatory visits between 1999-2003 and 2007-2011 showed that the proportions of visits increased from 27.1혻짹혻1.3% to 35.4혻짹혻1.0% for pediatricians, decreased from 32.8혻짹혻1.8% to 17.0혻짹혻0.8% for family physicians, and did not change for otolaryngologists and internal medicine physicians. Specifically, pediatricians were visited more often if the children were younger, or if the health-care facility (level of hospital) was either a medical center or a regional hospital. Upper respiratory tract infection was the top diagnosis, followed by acute bronchitis, and acute and chronic tonsillitis.   CONCLUSIONS The role of pediatricians in children's ambulatory care increased in importance from 1999 to 2011 in Taiwan. However, approximately two thirds of children sought ambulatory medical help from nonpediatric physicians. Thus, it is important to educate and encourage parents to visit pediatricians if their children require medical help.
In most childhood rheumatic diseases, specific diagnostic markers are not yet available. Therefore, a major emphasis in medical research today is directed to the discovery of new inflammation molecules, like calprotectin. Calprotectin (MRP8/MRP14) is a complex of calcium- and zinc-binding proteins that belong to the S100 protein family. This protein is directly released by leukocytes during the interaction with inflammatory activated endothelium at the site of inflammation. Increased plasma calprotectin levels have been found in inflammatory chronic diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA), juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), multiple sclerosis, cystic fibrosis and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). In these diseases, serum calprotectin has been shown to correlate with disease activity and laboratory variables of inflammation such as C-reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR). This review outlines the validity and the possible applications of calprotectin as a new inflammation marker in paediatric rheumatic diseases.
The American Thoracic Society (ATS), in collaboration with George Mason University, surveyed a random sample of ATS members to assess their perceptions of, clinical experiences with, and preferred policy responses to climate change. An e-mail containing an invitation from the ATS President and a link to an online survey was sent to 5,500 randomly selected U.S. members; up to four reminder e-mails were sent to nonrespondents. Responses were received from members in 49 states and the District of Columbia (n=915); the response rate was 17%. Geographic distribution of respondents mirrored that of the sample. Survey estimates' confidence intervals were 짹3.5% or smaller. Results indicate that a large majority of ATS members have concluded that climate change is happening (89%), that it is driven by human activity (68%), and that it is relevant to patient care ('a great deal'/'a moderate amount') (65%). A majority of respondents indicated they were already observing health impacts of climate change among their patients, most commonly as increases in chronic disease severity from air pollution (77%), allergic symptoms from exposure to plants or mold (58%), and severe weather injuries (57%). A larger majority anticipated seeing these climate-related health impacts in the next 2 decades. Respondents indicated that physicians and physician organizations should play an active role in educating patients, the public, and policy makers on the human health effects of climate change. Overall, ATS members are observing that human health is already adversely affected by climate change and support responses to address this situation.
PURPOSE Thoracoscopic lobectomy in infants requires advanced minimally invasive skills. Simulation-based education has the potential to improve complex procedural skills without exposing the patient to undue risks. The study purposes were (1) to create a size-appropriate infant lobectomy simulator and (2) to evaluate validity evidence to support or refute its use in surgical education.   MATERIALS AND METHODS In this Institutional Review Board-exempt study, a size-appropriate rib cage for a 3-month-old infant was created. Fetal bovine tissue completed the simulator. Thirty-three participants performed the simulated thoracoscopic lobectomy. Participants completed a self-report, 26-item instrument consisting of 25 4-point rating scales (from 1=not realistic to 4=highly realistic) and a one 4-point Global Rating Scale. Validity evidence relevant to test content and response processes was evaluated using the many-facet Rasch model, and evidence of internal structure (inter-item consistency) was estimated using Cronbach's alpha.   RESULTS Experienced surgeons (observed average=3.6) had slightly higher overall rating than novice surgeons (observed average=3.4, P=.001). The highest combined observed averages were for the domain Physical Attributes (3.7), whereas the lowest ratings were for the domains Realism of Experience and Ability to Perform Tasks (3.4). The global rating was 2.9, consistent with 'this simulator can be considered for use in infant lobectomy training, but could be improved slightly.' Inter-item consistency for items used to evaluate the simulator's quality was high (慣=0.90).   CONCLUSIONS With ratings consistent with high physical attributes and realism, we successfully created an infant lobectomy simulator, and preliminary evidence relevant to test content, response processes, and internal structure was supported. Participants rated the model as realistic, relevant to clinical practice, and valuable as a learning tool. Minor improvements were suggested prior to its full implementation as an educational and testing tool.
PURPOSE Laparoscopic duodenal atresia (DA) repair is a relatively uncommon pediatric operation requiring advanced minimally invasive skills. Currently, there are no commercial simulators available that address surgeons' needs for refining skills associated with this procedure. The purposes of this study were (1) to create an anatomically correct, size-relevant model and (2) to evaluate the content validity of the simulator.   MATERIALS AND METHODS Radiologic images were used to create an abdominal domain consistent with a full-term infant. Fetal bovine tissue was used to complete the simulator. Following Institutional Review Board exempt determination, 18 participants performed the simulated laparoscopic DA repair. Participants completed a self-report, six-domain, 24-item instrument consisting of 4-point rating scales (from 1=not realistic to 4=highly realistic). Validity evidence relevant to test content and response processes was evaluated using the many-facet Rasch model, and evidence of internal structure (inter-item consistency) was estimated using Cronbach's alpha.   RESULTS The highest observed averages were for 'Value as a training and testing tool' (both observed averages=3.9), whereas the lowest ratings were 'Palpation of liver' (observed average=3.3) and 'Realism of skin' (observed average=3.2). The Global opinion rating was 3.2, indicating the simulator can be considered for use as is, but could be improved slightly. Inter-item consistency was high (慣=0.89).   CONCLUSIONS We have successfully created a size-appropriate laparoscopic DA simulator. Participants agreed that the simulator was relevant and valuable as a learning/testing tool. Prior to implementing this simulator as a training tool, minor improvements should be made, with subsequent evaluation of additional validation evidence.
In 1965, the specialty of paediatric nephrology was in its infancy. Following the development of a landmark collaborative research study, the International Study of Kidney Disease in Childhood in the mid-1960s, the first specialist societies were formed: the European Society of Pediatric Nephrology in 1967 and the American Society of Pediatric Nephrology in 1969. The extraordinary improvements in care delivered to children with kidney disease over the past 50 years are too broad to cover in any one paper. They traverse the spectrum of diagnosis, classification, therapeutics, social well-being and transition to adult care. We have selected four case scenarios to highlight these changes in key areas of paediatric nephrology: post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis, nephrotic syndrome, haemolytic uraemic syndrome and neonatal dialysis and childhood transplantation.
The inclusion of children's samples in biobanks brings forward specific ethical issues. Guidelines indicate that children should be involved in the consent procedure. It is, however, unclear how to allocate an appropriate role for children. Knowledge of current practice will be helpful in addressing this issue. Therefore, we conducted an international multiple-case study on the child's role in consent procedures in pediatric biobanks. Four biobanks were included: (1) LifeLines, (2) Prevention and Incidence of Asthma and Mite Allergy (PIAMA), (3) Young-HUNT3 and (4) the Oxford Radcliffe Biobank contribution to the Children's Cancer and Leukaemia Group tissue bank (ORB/CCLG). Four themes linked to the child's role in the consent procedure emerged from the multiple-case study: (1) motives to involve the child, (2) informing the child, (3) the role of dissent, assent and consent and (4) voluntariness of children to participate. We conclude that biobank characteristics influence the biobank's motives to include children in the consent procedure. Moreover, the motives to include children influence how the children are involved in the consent procedure, and the extent to which children are able to make voluntary decisions as part of the consent procedure. This insight is valuable when designing pediatric biobank governance.
Clinicians at the front line of healthcare delivery are very well positioned to identify and improve the system in which they work. Training curricula, however, have not always equipped them with the skills or knowledge to implement change. This article looks at educational approaches to support clinicians to be actively involved with quality improvement (QI). It looks at the role of doctors in postgraduate training (DrPGT) and their educational supervisors and builds on the topics discussed throughout the 'EQUIPPED' article series. Factors for success of a QI education programme and practical ideas for overcoming barriers to supporting clinicians in QI are discussed. We present examples of educational initiatives and a framework for evaluating such programmes, and we examine the role of faculty development to help inspire and support colleagues to improve care.
INTRODUCTION The paediatric workforce has grown substantially in recent years. Roles have changed considerably with the introduction of working time legislation and a move towards a trained doctor solution. By gaining a better understanding of paediatric trainees' career intentions, this study aims to assess whether the right workforce is being trained to meet the future demand for paediatric services in the UK.   METHOD A survey was sent to paediatric specialist trainees, when they were expected to have completed their 1st year of Specialty Training or Fixed Term Specialty Training Appointments, in 2009 (part 1). A second survey was sent to the same cohort when they were expected to have completed their 3rd year in 2011 (part 2).   RESULTS In part 1 of the survey, the response rate was 79.1%. In part 2 the response rate was 80.5%. Of those who had responded to part 1, 87.4% also responded to part 2. The attrition rate of trainees leaving the paediatric training scheme between the 1st year and 3rd year of training was 15%. Of those still training in paediatrics after the 3rd year, 38.7% intended to be subspecialty paediatricians, 25.7% general paediatricians, 5.4% community paediatricians and 3.5% academic paediatricians. 26% were undecided and 0.6% did not intend to follow a career in paediatrics at all. The proportion of trainees who were undecided about their career intentions had risen substantially from 7.7% after the 1st year. There was a decrease in trainees' confidence in obtaining a consultant post between the 1st year and the 3rd year.   CONCLUSIONS Workforce planning is a complex task and this study shows that trainees will change their career plans while progressing through their run-through programmes. A better understanding of these factors will enable the Royal College of Paediatrics and Chld Health to deliver the right workforce for the UK.
BACKGROUND Surgical treatment of congenital cardiac defects in Finland started >60 years ago. We analyzed the survival of all the pediatric cardiac surgery patients operated on before 2010.   METHODS AND RESULTS Data were obtained retrospectively from a pediatric cardiac surgery database. Patient status was received from the Finnish Population Registry. Survival was determined with the Kaplan-Meier method, and the survival rate was compared with a sex- and age-matched general population. Between 1953 and 2009, 13 876 cardiac operations were performed on 10 964 pediatric patients in Finland. Follow-up coverage was 98%. The 60-year survival for the entire study was 70% versus 86% for the general population. The number and proportion of severe cardiac defects increased in the 2000s. The long-term survival of patients with severe defects improved significantly across decades. For instance, the 22-year survival rate of patients with transposition of the great arteries operated on in 1953 to 1989 and in 1990 to 2009 improved from 71% to 93% (hazard ratio for death, 0.29; 95% confidence interval, 0.17-0.49; P<0.0001), respectively. The mean patient age at operation decreased from 8.9 to 2.2 years (95% confidence interval, 6.2-7.1; P<0.0001). The early mortality of patients decreased from a maximum of 7% in the 1970s to 3% in the 2000s (95% confidence interval, 0.05-0.08; P<0.0001).   CONCLUSIONS Patients are diagnosed and treated at an increasingly younger age. Advanced diagnostics, surgical methods, and postoperative intensive care have led to substantial improvements in both early and late results among pediatric cardiac surgery patients.
OBJECTIVE The purpose of this study was to determine parents' knowledge about pediatric fluoroscopic procedures and potential risk from ionizing radiation before and after being given an informational brochure.   SUBJECTS AND METHODS We reviewed responses from 120 randomly selected participants who were parents or guardians of pediatric patients undergoing diagnostic fluoroscopic examinations. A questionnaire assessed participants' knowledge of the procedure, radiation exposure, and whether their child had a prior examination before and after receiving an informational brochure. In a feedback survey, participants rated the brochure. A repeated measures mixed model was used to evaluate the effect of the brochure on the participants' knowledge.   RESULTS Participant demographics were women (79%), English speaking (99%), white (90%), and education higher than 12th grade (76%). The median age of patients undergoing the fluoroscopic examination was 4 years. Participant knowledge increased (p < 0.0001) between pre- and postbrochure (least-squares means) for those without a previous examination from 38.3 to 63.4 (total test score) and from 46.3 to 61.8 for those with a prior examination. The proportion of correct answers was higher (p < 0.0001) postbrochure compared with pre-brochure in areas of examination name (99% vs 93%), procedure details (97% vs 87%); use of radiation (100% vs 68%), and radiation dose comparison (79% vs 25%). Overall, 99% (119/120) rated the brochure 'good' or 'great' (p < 0.0001).   CONCLUSION An informational brochure given to participants before their child's fluoroscopic procedure improved their knowledge of the examination and radiation exposure. No participants refused their child's examination.
Regular analysis of the major journals in dermatology and paediatrics has been used to select forty articles which are representative of the past year in paediatric dermatology. This selection is not exhaustive but rather reflects the interests of the author and also the dominant topics in paediatric dermatology in 2013-2014.
OBJECTIVE Transport professionals must routinely engage in complex decision making. One challenging decision is the determination of mode of transport. This study explores the decisional factors involved in the determination of mobilizing ground ambulance versus helicopter for pediatric-neonatal interfacility transport. The aim was to gather initial qualitative data to aid in the development of an objective scoring tool that would be used to guide the mode of transport decision for pediatric and neonatal interfacility transport. The focus of the study was to elicit the factors that influence the mode of transport decision among professionals who are involved in this decision.   METHODS This study was conducted in an urban, freestanding children's hospital with a dedicated pediatric/neonatal transport team. Subjects were given written scenarios that represented a phone call requesting transport from a referring hospital. Subjects were asked to choose between 2 modes of transport: ambulance or helicopter. Weather was assumed to be clear. Decision-making factors were gathered and tallied. For group comparison, the Fisher exact, Pearson chi-square, Student t, or Wilcoxon rank sum tests for scale data was used. A multivariate logistic regression was performed to assess factors associated with the mode of transport decision.   RESULTS Responses were received from a total of 19 subjects. Nurses represented 58% (11) of the respondents, and physicians represented 42% (8). The nurses were all either currently employed on the transport team or had left the team within the past 2 years. The physicians were all critical care or emergency medicine fellows and attending physicians who serve in the medical control role for the transport team. All subjects reported a minimum of five years in their respective professions. The decision to mobilize a helicopter for interfacility transport was significantly associated with the provider's level of clinical concern in conjunction with the perceived distance and if neurovascular or respiratory status was in question in both univariate tests and the multivariate logistic regression. The decision to mobilize a helicopter did not differ significantly between professional roles (nurse vs. physician) or concerns about hemodynamic status such as blood pressure and heart rate. Physicians were significantly more likely to overestimate perceived ground travel time to the outside facility.   CONCLUSIONS Health care providers responsible for directing and conducting the interfacility transport of critically ill children are more likely to mobilize a helicopter for transport in the face of neurovascular or respiratory clinical concerns in conjunction with a prolonged transport distance. When the provider's level of concern is lower, then a ground ambulance is consistently chosen even if out of hospital time is prolonged.
BACKGROUND In the world emergencies occur everywhere, and each day they consume ressources regardless of whether there are systems capable of achieving good outcomes. Low-income countries suffer the most highest rates of every category of injury--from traffic and the highest rates of acute complications of communicable diseases including tuberculosis, malaria and HIV.   OBJECTIVE To describe the development of pediatrics emergency medicine at Tikur Anbesa Specialized Hospital   METHODS A twinning partnership model was used in developing a pediatric emergency medicine training program helps in development of pediatrics emergency system.   RESULTS Strengthening the capacity of Addis Ababa University (AAU), Tikur Anbessa Hospital (TASH) to provide pediatric emergency medical services through improved organization of the pediatrics emergency department and strengthening of continuing education opportunities for faculty and staff capacity building by this improving quality of care in pediatrics patients in the country.   CONCLUSION The Addis Ababa University, University of Wiscosin and People to People partners intend to continue working together to strengthening and developing effetive systems to deliver quality pediatrics emergency medicine care troughout all regions of Ethiopia.
INTRODUCTION The aim of this study was to identify the commonest referrals to a paediatric orthopaedic outpatient clinic and, therefore, to be able to improve the paediatric residency program in managing musculoskeletal problems.   MATERIAL AND METHODS Demographic data, referrals and final diagnosis were collected prospectively on all patients that were evaluated in a paediatric orthopaedic outpatient clinic.   RESULTS The majority of referrals were to evaluate musculoskeletal pain (37%), foot deformity (20%), spine deformity (15%), walking pattern (11%), alignment of the lower limbs (4%), and development of the hip (4%). A normal physical examination or a normal variation was observed in 42% of patients. A mild condition was observed in 17% of patients that should have only been referred to a paediatric orthopaedic clinic after failing to resolve pain with anti-inflammatories or physiotherapy. A mild deformity that only needed treatment if it became symptomatic was seen in 8% of patients.   CONCLUSIONS The majority of referrals were due to a normal variation or mild conditions that only required symptomatic treatment. Paediatric residency programs do not reflect the prevalence of musculoskeletal conditions in clinical practice.
INTRODUCTION Mild head trauma is a frequent complaint in Pediatric Emergency Departments. Several guidelines have been published in the last few years. However, significant variability can be appreciated in terms of the demand for image tests. The aim of this study is to determine the level of compliance with PECARN and AEP guidelines in the management of patients younger than 24 months old in four different hospitals.   PATIENTS AND METHODS A multicenter retrospective study was conducted on patients presenting with mild head trauma between October 1st, 2011 and March 31st, 2013 in the Emergency Departments of four hospitals.   RESULTS In the analysis of the results obtained, only one of the four hospitals complied with the AEP guidelines in more than 50% of the patients. The other three hospitals had a level of compliance lower than 50%. Management was more suitable according to PECARN guidelines, with 3 of the 4 hospitals having a level of compliance greater than 50%. However, the best compliance achieved by a hospital was only of 70%.   CONCLUSIONS The study shows that the level of compliance with guidelines for management of mild head trauma in patients younger than 24 months old is low.
INTRODUCTION Pediatric health care workers (HCW) often perform, promote, and advocate use of public funds for animal research (AR). We aim to determine whether HCW consider common arguments (and counterarguments) in support (or not) of AR convincing.   DESIGN After development and validation, an e-mail survey was sent to all pediatricians and pediatric intensive care unit nurses and respiratory therapists (RTs) affiliated with a Canadian University. We presented questions about demographics, support for AR, and common arguments (with their counterarguments) to justify the moral permissibility (or not) of AR. Responses are reported using standard tabulations. Responses of pediatricians and nurses/RTs were compared using Chi-square, with P<.05 considered significant.   RESULTS Response rate was 53/115(46%) (pediatricians), and 73/120(61%) (nurses/RTs). Pediatricians and nurses/RTs are supportive of AR. Most considered 'benefits arguments' sufficient to justify AR; however, most acknowledged that counterarguments suggesting alternative research methods may be available, or that it is unclear why the same 'benefits arguments' do not apply to using humans in research, significantly weakened 'benefits arguments'. Almost all were not convinced of the moral permissibility of AR by 'characteristics of non-human-animals arguments', including that non-human-animals may not be sentient, or are simply property. Most were not convinced of the moral permissibility of AR by 'human exceptionalism' arguments, including that humans have more advanced mental abilities, are of a special 'kind', can enter into social contracts, or face a 'lifeboat situation'. Counterarguments explained much of this, including that not all humans have these more advanced abilities [the argument from species overlap], and that the notion of 'kind' is arbitrary [e.g., why are we not of the kind 'sentient animal' or 'subject-of-a-life']. Pediatrician and nurse/RT responses were similar.   CONCLUSIONS Most respondents were not convinced of the moral permissibility of AR when given common arguments and counterarguments from the literature. HCW should seriously consider arguments on both sides of the AR debate.
PURPOSE Trends in pre- and postoperative fluid, electrolyte and osmolarity changes, and incidence of diabetes insipidus (DI) were assessed in pediatric patients with anterior visual pathway gliomas (AVPGs).   METHODS Thirty-three patients with AVPGs (age<16혻years) were divided into two groups: (1) no hypothalamic involvement [NHI; n=17 (51.5혻%) including optic (5, 15.2혻%); chiasmal (5, 15.2혻%); and optico-chiasmal (7, 21.2혻%)] and (2) hypothalamic involvement [HI; n=16 (48.5혻%) including chiasmal-hypothalamic (12, 36.4혻%) and optico-chiasmal-hypothalamic (4, 12.1혻%)]. Frontotemporal transylvian decompression/biopsy was undertaken in 32 patients, while one patient (with severe diencephalic syndrome) was treated conservatively. Their endocrinal and fluid/electrolyte balance, serum osmolarity, and DI status were noted. Chi-square test compared clinical/endocrinological parameters, and unpaired T test evaluated mean daily water/electrolyte changes (p value<0.05: significant).   RESULTS Significant visual deterioration (perception of light (PL) positive (left: n=4; right: n=4) and PL negative (left: n=5; right: n=5) was encountered due to optic atrophy. Larger lesions (>3혻cm), hydrocephalus [(NHI: n=7, 41.18혻%; HI: n=12, 75혻%), endocrinopathies (p=0.047), Na(+)/K(+) derangements, and preoperative DI (n=8, p=0.004)] were present in the group HI. Increased postoperative urine output (almost double in those with hypothalamic involvement) and hypernatremia/hyperkalemia were seen in group HI until the sixth postoperative day (p<0.05). Two patients with progressive hypernatremia without increased urine output showed dehydration on central venous pressure monitoring and improved with vasopressin administration. Five patients [NHI: n=4 (23.5혻%); HI: n=1 (6.3혻%)] had neurofibromatosis types I and 3 (NHI: n=1, 5.9혻%; HI: n=2, 12.5혻%) had a diencephalic syndrome.   CONCLUSIONS Hypothalamic infiltration significantly increases the incidence of DI and fluid and electrolyte disturbances. Strict vigilance over postoperative fluid balance is mandatory during the first postoperative week. Rapidly rising serial serum sodium values without increased urine output mandates immediate central venous pressure measurement to detect DI associated with dehydration.
Facial paralysis remains a vexing problem in the treatment of posterior cranial fossa tumors in children. Fortunately, current techniques are available to reconstruct the paralyzed face in restoring balance, symmetry, and amelioration of functional sequelae. The restoration of structure and function of the paralyzed face is tantamount to proper social integration and psychosocial rehabilitation. In addition, the facial nerve is important in preventing drying of the eyes, drooling, and speech abnormalities, among other functions. The most visible evidence of facial paralysis is stark asymmetry, especially with animation. This is perhaps the most troubling aspect of facial paralysis and the one that leads to the greatest amount of psychosocial stress for the child and family members. Management strategies include early and late intervention. Early reconstructive goals focus on preservation and strengthening of intact motor end plates through native stimulatory pathways. Late reconstructive efforts are centered on surgically reconstructing permanently lost function based on each third of the face. Use of adjunct modalities such as chemical or surgical denervation and myectomies are also critical tools in restoring symmetry. Physical therapy plays a large role in both early and late facial nerve paralysis in optimizing cosmetic and functional outcome.
Although pediatric palliative care policies and services have been developed, research in this area continues to lag. An integrated model of palliative care has been suggested by the American Academy of Pediatrics and includes complementary and alternative services aimed at improving the well-being of children and their families. The first-known pediatric palliative aquatics program (PPAP) in California uses several techniques to decrease pain and promote well-being through relaxation and interaction between patients, specialists, and family members. This study investigates the perceptions of family members of their children's experiences with a PPAP. Researchers from an outside institution conducted focus groups and interviews. Themes were extracted from the focus group transcripts using Braun and Clarke's method of inductive thematic analysis. Data were collected at the host site, local libraries, and participant homes. Participants were primary caregivers and siblings (n = 23) of children in a PPAP, an independent children's respite, transitional, and end-of-life care facility in California. The research described and drew implications from the diverse perceptions that family members expressed about the benefits of having a child in the PPAP, including sensory, physical, and social experiences. Although the PPAP aims to promote well-being through relaxation, several other benefits were expressed by family members of children going through the program, including pain relief.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 accelerated the implementation of electronic health records (EHRs) in pediatric offices. We sought to determine the prevalence and functionalities of EHRs, as well as pediatricians' perceptions of EHRs.   METHODS An 8-page self-administered questionnaire was sent randomly to 1621 nonretired US members of the American Academy of Pediatrics from July to December 2012. Responses were compared with a similar survey in 2009.   RESULTS The percent of pediatricians, who are using EHRs, increased significantly from 58% in the 2009 survey to 79% in 2012. Only 31% used an EHR considered to have basic functionality, and only 14% used a fully functional EHR. Providers with equal or greater than 20% public insurance patients (threshold for meaningful use eligibility) were more likely to have an EHR. Solo/2-physician practices were least likely to have adopted an EHR. Younger physicians were more likely to consider an EHR important to quality care and perceived the presence of an EHR as more important in recruiting.   CONCLUSIONS The number of office-based pediatricians who are using an EHR has steadily risen to almost 80%. EHR cost and reduction in productivity remain serious concerns. Despite the widespread adoption of EHRs by pediatricians, only few use a basic or fully functional EHR and even fewer have added pediatric functionality. There is a role for the EHR certification process to advance functionalities used by pediatricians and to increase efficiency, data exchange capability, and general EHR functionality.
The American Academy of Pediatrics strongly supports the Polio Eradication and Endgame Strategic Plan of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative. This plan was endorsed in November 2012 by the Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization of the World Health Organization and published by the World Health Organization in April 2013. As a key component of the plan, it will be necessary to stop oral polio vaccine (OPV) use globally to achieve eradication, because the attenuated viruses in the vaccine rarely can cause polio. The plan includes procedures for elimination of vaccine-associated paralytic polio and circulating vaccine-derived polioviruses (cVDPVs). cVDPVs can proliferate when vaccine viruses are transmitted among susceptible people, resulting in mutations conferring both the neurovirulence and transmissibility characteristics of wild polioviruses. Although there are 3 different types of wild poliovirus strains, the polio eradication effort has already resulted in the global elimination of type 2 poliovirus for more than a decade. Type 3 poliovirus may be eliminated because the wild type 3 poliovirus was last detected in 2012. Thus, of the 3 wild types, only wild type 1 poliovirus is still known to be circulating and causing disease. OPV remains the key vaccine for eradicating wild polioviruses in polio-infected countries because it induces high levels of systemic immunity to prevent paralysis and intestinal immunity to reduce transmission. However, OPV is a rare cause of paralysis and the substantial decrease in wild-type disease has resulted in estimates that the vaccine is causing more polio-related paralysis annually in recent years than the wild virus. The new endgame strategic plan calls for stepwise removal of the type 2 poliovirus component from trivalent oral vaccines, because type 2 wild poliovirus appears to have been eradicated (since 1999) and yet is the main cause of cVDPV outbreaks and approximately 40% of vaccine-associated paralytic polio cases. The Endgame and Strategic Plan will be accomplished by shifting from trivalent OPV to bivalent OPV (containing types 1 and 3 poliovirus only). It will be necessary to introduce trivalent inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV) into routine immunization programs in all countries using OPV to provide population immunity to type 2 before the switch from trivalent OPV to bivalent OPV. The Global Polio Eradication Initiative hopes to achieve global eradication of polio by 2018 with this strategy, after which all OPV use will be stopped. Challenges expected for adding IPV into routine immunization schedules include higher cost of IPV compared with OPV, cold-chain capacity limits, more complex administration of vaccine because IPV requires injections as opposed to oral administration, and inferior intestinal immunity conferred by IPV. The goal of this report is to help pediatricians understand the change in strategy and outline ways that pediatricians can help global polio eradication efforts, including advocating for the resources needed to accomplish polio eradication and for incorporation of IPV into routine immunization programs in all countries.
This report provides a summary of best practices for improving flow, reducing waiting times, and improving the quality of care of pediatric patients in the emergency department.
PURPOSE To describe the creation and validation of six simulations concerned with effective listening and interpersonal communication in pediatric rehabilitation.   METHODS AND FINDINGS The simulations involved clinicians from various disciplines, were based on clinical scenarios related to client issues, and reflected core aspects of listening/communication. Each simulation had a key learning objective, thus focusing clinicians on specific listening skills. The article outlines the process used to turn written scenarios into digital video simulations, including steps taken to establish content validity and authenticity, and to establish a series of videos based on the complexity of their learning objectives, given contextual factors and associated macrocognitive processes that influence the ability to listen. A complexity rating scale was developed and used to establish a gradient of easy/simple, intermediate, and hard/complex simulations.   CONCLUSIONS The development process exemplifies an evidence-based, integrated knowledge translation approach to the teaching and learning of listening and communication skills.
Primary systemic vasculitides of the young are relatively rare diseases, but are associated with significant morbidity and mortality, particularly if there is diagnostic delay. We provide an overview of paediatric vasculitides with emphasis on key differences in vasculitis presentation and management between children and adults. Significant advances in the field of paediatric vasculitis research include the development of classification criteria and disease outcome tools for paediatric disease; inclusion of paediatric patients in international multicentre randomized controlled trials of therapies in vasculitis; and development of rare disease trial designs for therapeutic trials of paediatric vasculitis. The continuation of unmet needs as well as the exploration of potential therapeutic avenues and considerations in the design of future trials are also discussed.
OBJECTIVES The objectives of this scoping review were to: (1) identify publicly available educational videos on needle pain management; and (2) evaluate the content of these videos.   METHODS Reviewers screened publicly available educational videos on pediatric needle pain management available on YouTube and Google using a broad-based search strategy. Videos were categorized using the CRAAP Test: Current, Relevant, from a trustworthy source (Authority), Accurate and evidence-based, and for what Purpose does the source exist.   RESULTS Twenty-five relevant, educational videos were identified. The intended audience for most videos was parents (n=16, 64%), followed by clinicians (n=6, 24%) and children (n=3, 12%). Common examples of needle pain included immunizations or IV insertion, with interventions appropriate for infants through school-aged children. The most frequently described techniques were parent-guided distraction and behavioral factors such as comfort holds and parent demeanor. Most videos were Current (96%), Relevant (100%), created by a trustworthy source: Authority (76%), and all were Accurate, with Purpose relating to needle pain management. None of the videos addressed the unique needs of children with a preexisting diagnosis of needle phobia.   DISCUSSION Publicly available educational videos offer clinicians, parents, and children evidence-based techniques to manage pediatric needle pain. Further evaluation is needed to determine whether this form of education meets the needs of target audiences and whether this type of content can lead to improved management of pediatric needle pain.
BACKGROUND/PURPOSE Melatonin, an indoleamine secreted by the pineal gland, plays a key role in regulating circadian rhythm. It has chronobiotic, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and free radical scavenging properties.   METHODS A conference in Rome in 2014 aimed to establish consensus on the roles of melatonin in children and on treatment guidelines.   RESULTS AND CONCLUSION The best evidence for efficacy is in sleep onset insomnia and delayed sleep phase syndrome. It is most effective when administered 3-5혻h before physiological dim light melatonin onset. There is no evidence that extended-release melatonin confers advantage over immediate release. Many children with developmental disorders, such as autism spectrum disorder, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and intellectual disability have sleep disturbance and can benefit from melatonin treatment. Melatonin decreases sleep onset latency and increases total sleep time but does not decrease night awakenings. Decreased CYP 1A2 activity, genetically determined or from concomitant medication, can slow metabolism, with loss of variation in melatonin level and loss of effect. Decreasing the dose can remedy this. Animal work and limited human data suggest that melatonin does not exacerbate seizures and might decrease them. Melatonin has been used successfully in treating headache. Animal work has confirmed a neuroprotective effect of melatonin, suggesting a role in minimising neuronal damage from birth asphyxia; results from human studies are awaited. Melatonin can also be of value in the performance of sleep EEGs and as sedation for brainstem auditory evoked potential assessments. No serious adverse effects of melatonin in humans have been identified.
Pediatricians and parents generally try to do what is best for children, but they do not always agree about what that is. Mothers and fathers may disagree with each other. Parents may disagree with pediatricians. Disagreements can arise about the goals, nature, and value of communication with children about health information. Disagreements can arise over the value of particular medical interventions. Some disagreements are grounded in different religious beliefs. Some are about moral values. Some are disagreements about ends, others about the best means to an agreed on end. If there is an intractable disagreement and discussion has failed to resolve that disagreement, pediatricians must decide whether to compromise their own values to preserve a therapeutic relationship, sever that relationship, or try to override a parental choice by referring a case to child protection authorities. Most cases can be resolved and a consensus found. This article discusses some common scenarios in which disagreements arise, including home birth, refusal of vitamin K, vaccine hesitancy, birth control for teens, corporal punishment, and surreptitious drug testing.
The workflow models of the patient journey in a Pediatric Emergency Department (PED) seems to be an effective approach to develop an accurate and complete representation of the PED processes. This model can drive the collection of comprehensive quantitative and qualitative service delivery and patient treatment data as an evidence base for the PED service planning. Our objective in this study is to identify crowded situation indicators and bottlenecks that contribute to over-crowding. The greatest source of delay in patient flow is the waiting time from the health care request, and especially the bed request to exit from the PED for hospital admission. It represented 70% of the time that these patients occupied in the PED waiting rooms. The use of real data to construct the workflow model of the patient path is effective in identifying sources of delay in patient flow, and aspects of the PED activity that could be improved. The development of this model was based on accurate visits made in the PED of the Regional University Hospital Center (CHRU) of Lille (France). This modeling, which has to represent most faithfully possible the reality of the PED of CHRU of Lille, is necessary. It must be detailed enough to produce an analysis allowing to identify the dysfunctions of the PED and also to propose and to estimate prevention indicators of crowded situations. Our survey is integrated into the French National Research Agency (ANR) project, titled: 'Hospital: Optimization, Simulation and avoidance of strain' (HOST).
OBJECTIVES This research was undertaken to investigate the knowledge and attitudes regarding Human Papillomavirus infection and the Human Papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine among pediatricians who work in primary health care and to determine their intention to recommend the HPV vaccine as an important measure for the primary prevention of cervical cancer. We assessed the factors associated with the intention to recommend the vaccine.   STUDY DESIGN This cross-sectional study was conducted in March and April 2012. This research included all pediatricians who worked with school children in public primary health care institutions in Belgrade. A research instrument questionnaire had been designed for this study.   RESULTS The response rate was 78.7%. The knowledge of pediatricians related to HPV infection and the HPV vaccine was estimated as poor. However, pediatricians recognized the need for additional education in this field. The most-frequently reported barrier to HPV vaccination was the financial concern (68.2%). Alternatively, according to the pediatricians, the most common parental barrier to vaccination was the lack of information on the vaccine (67.2%). Nearly two-thirds of the pediatricians were willing to recommend the vaccine (60.2%). The factors associated with the pediatricians' intention to recommend the vaccine included the parents' attitudes.   CONCLUSION The majority of pediatricians accept the HPV vaccine and recommend it to their patients. It is necessary to improve cooperation between parents and pediatricians to increase immunization coverage and develop national consulting strategies with a focus on the prevention of HPV infection.
OBJECTIVE The purpose of this study is to identify trends in the clinical workup, diagnosis, and treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome by pediatric endocrinologists, pediatric gynecologists, and adolescent medicine specialists.   DESIGN Retrospective chart review.   SETTING Tertiary care medical center.   PARTICIPANTS Females aged 11-18 y who were evaluated for PCOS from June 2009 to October 2011 were included. Any patients with coexisting diagnoses of other primary etiology for amenorrhea were excluded. Patients were identified by ICD-9 codes for PCOS, hypersecretion of ovarian androgens, irregular menses, hirsutism, oligomenorrhea, or amenorrhea. 261 patients were included: 144 from endocrinology, 9 from gynecology, and 108 from adolescent pediatric practices.   RESULTS There were no significant differences in the androgen labs ordered by the subspecialties. Gynecologists ordered pelvic ultrasonography for 89% (n = 8) of patients, compared to 9% (n = 10) by adolescent medicine specialists and 24% (n = 34) by endocrinologists (P < .0001). Endocrinologists were most likely to treat patients who met diagnostic criteria for PCOS with metformin (58%, n = 66), compared to gynecologists (14%, n = 1) and adolescent medicine specialists (5%, n = 3) (P < .0001). Gynecologists (43%, n = 3) and adolescent medicine specialists (58%, n = 39) were more likely than endocrinologists (24%, n = 27) to treat patients with oral contraceptive pills (P < .0001).   CONCLUSIONS Inconsistent diagnosis and treatment strategies for young women with PCOS are evident among pediatric subspecialties, reflecting lack of standardized care for adolescents. Quantifying outcomes based on diagnostic and therapeutic approaches are important next steps.
BACKGROUND/PURPOSE Reimbursement penalties for excess hospital readmissions have begun for the pediatric population. Therefore, research determining incidence and predictors is critical.   METHODS A retrospective review of University HealthSystem Consortium database (N=258 hospitals; 2,723,621 patients) for pediatric patients (age 0-17years) hospitalized from 9/2011 to 3/2015 was performed. Outcome measures were 7-, 14-, and 30-day readmission rates. Hospital and patient characteristics were evaluated to identify predictors of readmission.   RESULTS Readmission rates at 7, 14, and 30days were 2.1%, 3.1%, and 4.4%. For pediatric surgery patients (N=260,042), neither index hospitalization length of stay (LOS) nor presence of a complication predicted higher readmissions. Appendectomy was the most common procedure leading to readmission. Evaluating institutional data (N=5785), patients admitted for spine surgery, neurosurgery, transplant, or surgical oncology had higher readmission rates. Readmission diagnoses were most commonly infectious (37.2%) or for nausea/vomiting/dehydration (51.1%). Patients with chronic medical conditions comprised 55.8% of patients readmitted within 7days. 92.0% of patients requiring multiple rehospitalizations had comorbidities.   CONCLUSIONS Readmission rates for pediatric patients are significantly lower than adults. Risk factors for adult readmissions do not predict pediatric readmissions. Readmission may be a misnomer for the pediatric surgical population, as most are related to chronic medical conditions and other nonmodifiable risk factors.   LEVEL OF EVIDENCE Level IV.
INTRODUCTION Cognitive aids (CAs), including emergency manuals and checklists, have been recommended as a means to address the failure of healthcare providers to adhere to evidence-based standards of treatment during crisis situations. Unfortunately, users of CAs still commit errors, omit critical steps, fail to achieve perfect adherence to guidelines, and frequently choose to not use CA during both simulated and real crisis events. We sought to evaluate whether the mode in which a CA presents information (ie, paper vs. electronic) affects clinician performance during simulated critical events.   METHODS In a prospective, randomized, controlled trial, anesthesia trainees managed simulated events under 1 of the following 3 conditions: (1) from memory alone (control), (2) with a paper CA, or (3) with an electronic version of the same CA. Management of the events was assessed using scenario-specific checklists. Mixed-effect regression models were used for analysis of overall checklist score and for elapsed time.   RESULTS One hundred thirty-nine simulated events were observed and rated. Approximately, 1 of 3 trainees assigned to use a CA (electronic 29%, paper 36%) chose not to use it during the scenario. Compared with the control group (52%), the overall score was 6% higher in the paper CA group and 8% higher (95% confidence interval, 0.914.5; P = 0.03) in the electronic CA group. The difference between paper and electronic CA was not significant. There was a wide range in time to first use of the CA, but the time to task completion was not affected by CA use, nor did the time to CA use impact CA effectiveness as measured by performance.   CONCLUSIONS The format (paper or electronic) of the CA did not affect the impact of the CA on clinician performance in this study. Clinician compliance with the use of the CA was unaffected by format, suggesting that other factors may determine whether clinicians choose to use a CA or not. Time to use of the CA did not affect clinical performance, suggesting that it may not be when CAs are used but how they are used that determines their impact. The current study highlights the importance of not just familiarizing clinicians with the content of CA but also training clinicians in when and how to use an emergency CA.
As cure rates in pediatric oncology have improved substantially over the last decades, supportive care has become increasingly important to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve quality of life in children with cancer. Currently, large variations exist in pediatric oncology supportive care practice, which might negatively influence care. This plea underlines the importance of development and implementation of trustworthy supportive care clinical practice guidelines, which we believe is the essential next step towards better supportive care practice, and thus a higher quality of care. To facilitate international development and endorsement, the International Pediatric Oncology Guidelines in Supportive Care Network has been established.
BACKGROUND Until recently, paediatric tuberculosis (TB) has been relatively neglected by the broader TB and the maternal and child health communities. Human rights-based approaches to children affected by TB could be powerful; however, awareness and application of such strategies is not widespread.   DISCUSSION We summarize the current challenges faced by children affected by TB, including: consideration of their family context; the limitations of preventive, diagnostic and treatment options; paucity of paediatric-specific research; failure in implementation of interventions; and stigma. We examine the articles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) and relate them to childhood TB. Specifically, we focus on the five core principles of the CRC: children's inherent right to life and States' duties towards their survival and development; children's right to enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health; non-discrimination; best interests of the child; and respect for the views of the child. We highlight where children's rights are violated and how a human rights-based approach should be used as a tool to help children affected by TB, particularly in light of the Sustainable Development Goals and their focus on universality and leaving no one behind. The article aims to bridge the gap between those providing paediatric TB clinical care and conducting research, and those working in the fields of human rights policy and advocacy to promote a human rights-based approach for children affected by TB based upon the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
AIM Improved communication with staff during a child's hospitalisation is an important determinant of family satisfaction. We examined whether displaying staff photographs in prominent locations would help children and their parents or guardians to recognise staff and whether this enhanced identification would improve parental satisfaction with their child's hospitalisation.   METHODS No photographs were displayed during the first part of the study. During the second part of the study, staff photographs were placed in prominent locations throughout the paediatric ward. Parents filled in a satisfaction questionnaire on discharge, and the children and their parents were asked how many staff members they could name.   RESULTS The children named a significantly larger number of staff members in phase two than phase one, while the parents' score was unchanged. Overall parental satisfaction was significantly higher in phase two. The parent's age, the duration of the child's hospitalisation and taking part in phase two of the study were significant predictors of parental satisfaction.   CONCLUSION When children were more able to recognise and name hospital staff, this indirectly improved parental satisfaction, even if the number that parents could identify remained unchanged. Displaying staff photographs is a simple way of increasing parental satisfaction during a child's hospitalisation.
OBJECTIVE To assess the role of point-of-care (PoC) assessment of C-reactive protein (CRP) and white blood cell (WBC) count to identify bacterial illness in Tanzanian children with non-severe non-malarial fever.   METHODS From the outpatient department of a district hospital in Tanzania, 428 patients between 3 months and 5 years of age who presented with fever and a negative malaria test were enrolled. All had a physical examination and bacterial cultures from blood and urine. Haemoglobin, CRP and WBC were measured by PoC devices.   RESULTS Positive blood cultures were detected in 6/428 (1.4%) children and urine cultures were positive in 24/401 (6.0%). Mean WBC was similar in children with or without bacterial illness (14.0 횞 109 , 95% CI 12.0-16.0 횞 109 vs. 12.0 횞 109 , 95% CI 11.4-12.7 횞 109), while mean CRP was higher in children with bacterial illness (41.0 mg/l, 95% CI 28.3-53.6 vs. 23.8 mg/l, 95% CI 17.8-27.8). In ROC analysis, the optimum cut-off value for CRP to identify bacterial illness was 19 mg/l but with an area under the curve of only 0.62. Negative predictive values exceeded 80%, while positive predictive values were under 40%.   CONCLUSION WBC and CRP levels had limited value in identifying children with bacterial infections. The positive predictive values for both tests were too low to be used as single tools for treatment decisions.
BACKGROUND The number of racial/ethnic minority children will exceed the number of white children in the USA by 2018. Although 38% of Americans are minorities, only 12% of pediatricians, 5% of medical-school faculty, and 3% of medical-school professors are minorities. Furthermore, only 5% of all R01 applications for National Institutes of Health grants are from African-American, Latino, and American Indian investigators. Prompted by the persistent lack of diversity in the pediatric and biomedical research workforces, the Academic Pediatric Association Research in Academic Pediatrics Initiative on Diversity (RAPID) was initiated in 2012. RAPID targets applicants who are members of an underrepresented minority group (URM), disabled, or from a socially, culturally, economically, or educationally disadvantaged background. The program, which consists of both a research project and career and leadership development activities, includes an annual career-development and leadership conference which is open to any resident, fellow, or junior faculty member from an URM, disabled, or disadvantaged background who is interested in a career in academic general pediatrics.   METHODS As part of the annual RAPID conference, a Hot Topic Session is held in which the young investigators spend several hours developing a list of hot topics on the most useful faculty and career-development issues. These hot topics are then posed in the form of six 'burning questions' to the RAPID National Advisory Committee (comprised of accomplished, nationally recognized senior investigators who are seasoned mentors), the RAPID Director and Co-Director, and the keynote speaker.   RESULTS/CONCLUSIONS The six compelling questions posed by the 10 young investigators-along with the responses of the senior conference leadership-provide a unique resource and 'survival guide' for ensuring the academic success and optimal career development of young investigators in academic pediatrics from diverse backgrounds. A rich conversation ensued on the topics addressed, consisting of negotiating for protected research time, career trajectories as academic institutions move away from an emphasis on tenure-track positions, how 'non-academic' products fit into career development, racism and discrimination in academic medicine and how to address them, coping with isolation as a minority faculty member, and how best to mentor the next generation of academic physicians.
The care of children with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) is highly specialized and often poorly understood by nonpediatric providers and facility/institution administrators. As such, this position paper has been created to offer provider, facility, and institutional guidance regarding the components of care necessary for children receiving dialysis. Key differences between adult and pediatric dialysis units are highlighted. Responsibilities and expectations of the members of the interdisciplinary dialysis team are outlined as they pertain specifically to the care of pediatric dialysis patients. Physical and staffing requirements of the dialysis facility are reviewed, again focusing on unique needs and challenges faced by the pediatric dialysis care team. Among these, vascular access options and proper planning of ESRD care are underscored. Pediatric quality-of-life metrics differ significantly from adult quality variables, and proper tools for assessment must be used. Endorsed by the Council of the American Society of Pediatric Nephrology (ASPN), this position paper serves as a reference tool for the provision of care to pediatric patients with ESRD.
OBJECTIVE Improving provider recommendations is critical to addressing low human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination coverage. Thus, we sought to determine the effectiveness of training providers to improve their recommendations using either presumptive 'announcements' or participatory 'conversations.'   METHODS In 2015, we conducted a parallel-group randomized clinical trial with 30 pediatric and family medicine clinics in central North Carolina. We randomized clinics to receive no training (control), announcement training, or conversation training. Announcements are brief statements that assume parents are ready to vaccinate, whereas conversations engage parents in open-ended discussions. A physician led the 1-hour, in-clinic training. The North Carolina Immunization Registry provided data on the primary trial outcome: 6-month coverage change in HPV vaccine initiation (1 dose) for adolescents aged 11 or 12 years.   RESULTS The immunization registry attributed 17173 adolescents aged 11 or 12 to the 29 clinics still open at 6-months posttraining. Six-month increases in HPV vaccination coverage were larger for patients in clinics that received announcement training versus those in control clinics (5.4% difference, 95% confidence interval: 1.1%-9.7%). Stratified analyses showed increases for both girls (4.6% difference) and boys (6.2% difference). Patients in clinics receiving conversation training did not differ from those in control clinics with respect to changes in HPV vaccination coverage. Neither training was effective for changing coverage for other vaccination outcomes or for adolescents aged 13 through 17 (n = 37796).   CONCLUSIONS Training providers to use announcements resulted in a clinically meaningful increase in HPV vaccine initiation among young adolescents.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE A multisite study was conducted to determine the psychometric properties of the National Institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) 2-question alcohol screen within pediatric emergency departments (PEDs).   METHODS Participants (N = 4838) included 12- to 17-year-old subjects treated in 1 of the 16 participating PEDs across the United States. A criterion assessment battery (including the NIAAA 2-question alcohol screen and other measures of alcohol, drug use, and risk behaviors) was self-administered on a tablet computer. A subsample (n = 186) was re-administered the NIAAA 2-question screen 1 week later to assess test-retest reliability.   RESULTS Moderate to good test-retest reliability was demonstrated. A classification of moderate risk or higher on the screen had the best combined sensitivity and specificity for determining a diagnosis of alcohol use disorder (AUD) for all students. Any past year drinking among middle school students increased the odds of a diagnosis of an AUD according to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition criteria, whereas the optimal cutoff for high school ages was 3 drinking days in the past year. The optimal cutoff for drinking days determining a positive Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test score among middle school subjects was 1 drinking day, whereas the optimal cutoff for high school subjects was 2 drinking days.   CONCLUSIONS The NIAAA 2-question screen is a brief, valid approach for alcohol screening in PEDs. A positive screen suggests that referral for further evaluation is indicated to determine if an adolescent has an AUD.
Pediatric Life Support (PLS) courses and instructional programs are educational tools developed to teach resuscitation and stabilization of children who are critically ill or injured. A number of PLS courses have been developed by national professional organizations for different health care providers (eg, pediatricians, emergency physicians, other physicians, prehospital professionals, pediatric and emergency advanced practice nurses, physician assistants). PLS courses and programs have attempted to clarify and standardize assessment and treatment approaches for clinical practice in emergency, trauma, and critical care. Although the effectiveness of PLS education has not yet been scientifically validated, the courses and programs have significantly expanded pediatric resuscitation training throughout the United States and internationally. Variability in terminology and in assessment components used in education and training among PLS courses has the potential to create confusion among target groups and in how experts train educators and learners to teach and practice pediatric emergency, trauma, and critical care. It is critical that all educators use standard terminology and patient assessment to address potential or actual conflicts regarding patient evaluation and treatment. This article provides a consensus of several organizations as to the proper order and terminology for pediatric patient assessment. The Supplemental Information provides definitions for terms and nomenclature used in pediatric resuscitation and life support courses.
OBJECTIVE In September 2011, an established pediatric asthma pathway at a tertiary care children's hospital underwent significant revision. Modifications included simplification of the visual layout, addition of evidence-based recommendations regarding medication use, and implementation of standardized admission criteria. The objective of this study was to determine the impact of the modified asthma pathway on pathway adherence, percentage of patients receiving evidence-based care, length of stay, and cost.   METHODS Cases were identified by using International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification diagnosis codes. Data were analyzed for 24 months before and after pathway modification. Statistical process control was used to examine changes in processes of care, and interrupted time series was used to examine outcome measures, including length of stay and cost in the premodification and postmodification periods.   RESULTS A total of 5584 patients were included (2928 premodification; 2656 postmodification). Pathway adherence was high (79%-88%) throughout the study period. The percentage of patients receiving evidence-based care improved after pathway modification, and the results were sustained for 2 years. There was also improved efficiency, with a 30-minute (10%) decrease in emergency department length of stay for patients admitted with asthma (P = .006). There was a nominal (<10%) increase in costs of asthma care for patients in the emergency department (P = .04) and no change for those admitted to the hospital.   CONCLUSIONS Modification of an existing pediatric asthma pathway led to sustained improvement in provision of evidence-based care and patient flow without adversely affecting costs. Our results suggest that continuous re-evaluation of established clinical pathways can lead to changes in provider practices and improvements in patient care.
BACKGROUND Claims-based measures of 'low-value' pediatric services could facilitate the implementation of interventions to reduce the provision of potentially harmful services to children. However, few such measures have been developed.   METHODS We developed claims-based measures of 20 services that typically do not improve child health according to evidence-based guidelines (eg, cough and cold medicines). Using these measures and claims from 4.4 million commercially insured US children in the 2014 Truven MarketScan Commercial Claims and Encounters database, we calculated the proportion of children who received at least 1 low-value pediatric service during the year, as well as total and out-of-pocket spending on these services. We report estimates based on 'narrow' measures designed to only capture instances of service use that were low-value. To assess the sensitivity of results to measure specification, we also reported estimates based on 'broad measures' designed to capture most instances of service use that were low-value.   RESULTS According to the narrow measures, 9.6% of children in our sample received at least 1 of the 20 low-value services during the year, resulting in $27.0 million in spending, of which $9.2 million was paid out-of-pocket (33.9%). According to the broad measures, 14.0% of children in our sample received at least 1 of the 20 low-value services during the year.   CONCLUSIONS According to a novel set of claims-based measures, at least 1 in 10 children in our sample received low-value pediatric services during 2014. Estimates of low-value pediatric service use may vary substantially with measure specification.
Emotional, behavioral, and relationship problems can develop in very young children, especially those living in high-risk families or communities. These early problems interfere with the normative activities of young children and their families and predict long-lasting problems across multiple domains. A growing evidence base demonstrates the efficacy of specific family-focused therapies in reducing the symptoms of emotional, behavioral, and relationship symptoms, with effects lasting years after the therapy has ended. Pediatricians are usually the primary health care providers for children with emotional or behavioral difficulties, and awareness of emerging research about evidence-based treatments will enhance this care. In most communities, access to these interventions is insufficient. Pediatricians can improve the care of young children with emotional, behavioral, and relationship problems by calling for the following: increased access to care; increased research identifying alternative approaches, including primary care delivery of treatments; adequate payment for pediatric providers who serve these young children; and improved education for pediatric providers about the principles of evidence-based interventions.
Despite increasing attention to issues of patient safety, preventable adverse events (AEs) continue to occur, causing direct and consequential injuries to patients, families, and health care providers. Pediatricians generally agree that there is an ethical obligation to inform patients and families about preventable AEs and medical errors. Nonetheless, barriers, such as fear of liability, interfere with disclosure regarding preventable AEs. Changes to the legal system, improved communications skills, and carefully developed disclosure policies and programs can improve the quality and frequency of appropriate AE disclosure communications.
OBJECTIVE To improve the frequency of electronic prescribing (e-prescribing) of discharge prescriptions at a children's hospital via a bundle of quality improvement interventions.   METHODS Surveys and focus groups were conducted with patient families and pediatric residents to identify barriers and propose solutions to e-prescribing. These data were used to generate a series of interventions, including the following: (1) provider education; (2) changes in patient registration workflow; and (3) electronic health record changes to improve the frequency of e-prescribing on the pediatric hospital medicine (PHM) service. The primary outcome measure was the e-prescribing frequency, with a balance measure of e-prescribing errors.   RESULTS From July 2014 through June 2015, e-prescribing frequency on the PHM service improved from a median of 7.4% to 48.9% (P < .001) and was sustained for an additional 6 months (July 2015-December 2015), surpassing meaningful use targets with associated US News and World Report hospital ranking points. The frequency of PHM prescription errors remained unchanged, and in comparison, the resident outpatient clinic revealed no statistically significant change in e-prescribing frequency during this time period.   CONCLUSIONS Engaging front-line providers in hospital-wide initiatives and quality improvement interventions can directly affect hospital metrics in programs such as meaningful use and US News and World Report, as shown through successful improvement in PHM e-prescribing frequency. Future studies are necessary to determine whether increased e-prescribing frequency affects patient outcomes and compliance.
A career in pediatrics can bring great joy and satisfaction. It can also be challenging and lead some providers to manifest burnout and depression. A curriculum designed to help pediatric health providers acquire resilience and adaptive skills may be a key element in transforming times of anxiety and grief into rewarding professional experiences. The need for this curriculum was identified by the American Academy of Pediatrics Section on Medical Students, Residents and Fellowship Trainees. A working group of educators developed this curriculum to address the professional attitudes, knowledge, and skills essential to thrive despite the many stressors inevitable in clinical care. Fourteen modules incorporating adult learning theory were developed. The first 2 sections of the curriculum address the knowledge and skills to approach disclosure of life-altering diagnoses, and the second 2 sections focus on the provider's responses to difficult patient care experiences and their needs to develop strategies to maintain their own well-being. This curriculum addresses the intellectual and emotional characteristics patient care medical professionals need to provide high-quality, compassionate care while also addressing active and intentional ways to maintain personal wellness and resilience.
The voiding cystourethrogram (VCUG) is a frequently performed test to diagnose a variety of urologic conditions, such as vesicoureteral reflux. The test results determine whether continued observation or an interventional procedure is indicated. VCUGs are ordered by many specialists and primary care providers, including pediatricians, family practitioners, nephrologists, hospitalists, emergency department physicians, and urologists. Current protocols for performing and interpreting a VCUG are based on the International Reflux Study in 1985. However, more recent information provided by many national and international institutions suggests a need to refine those recommendations. The lead author of the 1985 study, R.L. Lebowitz, agreed to and participated in the current protocol. In addition, a recent survey directed to the chairpersons of pediatric radiology of 65 children's hospitals throughout the United States and Canada showed that VCUG protocols vary substantially. Recent guidelines from the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommend a VCUG for children between 2 and 24 months of age with urinary tract infections but did not specify how this test should be performed. To improve patient safety and to standardize the data obtained when a VCUG is performed, the AAP Section on Radiology and the AAP Section on Urology initiated the current VCUG protocol to create a consensus on how to perform this test.
This policy statement focuses on children and adolescents 5 through 18 years of age. Research suggests both benefits and risks of media use for the health of children and teenagers. Benefits include exposure to new ideas and knowledge acquisition, increased opportunities for social contact and support, and new opportunities to access health-promotion messages and information. Risks include negative health effects on weight and sleep; exposure to inaccurate, inappropriate, or unsafe content and contacts; and compromised privacy and confidentiality. Parents face challenges in monitoring their children's and their own media use and in serving as positive role models. In this new era, evidence regarding healthy media use does not support a one-size-fits-all approach. Parents and pediatricians can work together to develop a Family Media Use Plan (www.healthychildren.org/MediaUsePlan) that considers their children's developmental stages to individualize an appropriate balance for media time and consistent rules about media use, to mentor their children, to set boundaries for accessing content and displaying personal information, and to implement open family communication about media.
Transitions of care (ToCs), also referred to as handoffs or sign-outs, occur when the responsibility for a patient's care transfers from 1 health care provider to another. Transitions are common in the acute care setting and have been noted to be vulnerable events with opportunities for error. Health care is taking ideas from other high-risk industries, such as aerospace and nuclear power, to create models of structured transition processes. Although little literature currently exists to establish 1 model as superior, multiorganizational consensus groups agree that standardization is warranted and that additional work is needed to establish characteristics of ToCs that are associated with clinical or practice outcomes. The rationale for structuring ToCs, specifically those related to the care of children in the emergency setting, and a description of identified strategies are presented, along with resources for educating health care providers on ToCs. Recommendations for development, education, and implementation of transition models are included.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE The last decade has seen dramatic changes in the regulatory landscape to support more trials involving children, but child-specific challenges and inequitable conduct across income regions persist. The goal of this study was to describe the attitudes and opinions of stakeholders toward trials in children, to inform additional strategies to promote more high-quality, relevant pediatric trials across the globe.   METHODS Key informant semi-structured interviews were conducted with stakeholders (researchers, regulators, and sponsors) who were purposively sampled from low- to middle-income countries and high-income countries. The transcripts were thematically analyzed.   RESULTS Thirty-five stakeholders from 10 countries were interviewed. Five major themes were identified: addressing pervasive inequities (paucity of safety and efficacy data, knowledge disparities, volatile environment, double standards, contextual relevance, market-driven forces, industry sponsorship bias and prohibitive costs); contending with infrastructural barriers (resource constraints, dearth of pediatric trial expertise, and logistical complexities); navigating complex ethical and regulatory frameworks ('draconian' oversight, ambiguous requirements, exploitation, excessive paternalism and precariousness of coercion versus volunteerism); respecting uniqueness of children (pediatric research paradigms, child-appropriate approaches, and family-centered empowerment); and driving evidence-based child health (advocacy, opportunities, treatment access, best practices, and research prioritization).   CONCLUSIONS Stakeholders acknowledge that changes in the regulatory environment have encouraged more trials in children, but they contend that inequities and political, regulatory, and resource barriers continue to exist. Embedding trials as part of routine clinical care, addressing the unique needs of children, and streamlining regulatory approvals were suggested. Stakeholders recommended increasing international collaboration, establishing centralized trials infrastructure, and aligning research to child health priorities to encourage trials that address global child health care needs.
Childhood melanoma is a rare pediatric malignancy, with fewer than 500 new diagnoses annually. The incidence is increasing, particularly in the adolescent population. This review highlights the epidemiology, clinical presentation, and histopathologic challenges of pediatric melanoma. Surgical resection remains the cornerstone for localized and regionally advanced disease. Adjuvant therapies, including current options and potential novel therapeutics for this unique population will be discussed.
Pediatric/'Wildtype' gastrointestinal stromal tumor (P/WT-GIST) is a rare cancer, distinct and markedly different from the phenotype found predominantly in older patients (adult, non-wildtype GIST). Having a different molecular signature, it is not responsive to standard adjuvant therapies utilized in adult GIST, and surgery remains the only effective cure. However, even with presumed complete resections in patients with localized disease at presentation, recurrence rates are high. Furthermore, it is an indolent cancer that can persist for decades, and treatment strategies must balance the possible morbid risks of intervention with the reality of preserving quality of life in the interim. Effective adjuvant therapies remain elusive, and research is critically needed to identify both targets and drugs for treatment consideration.
Most children who succumb to solid malignancies do so because of the burden of metastatic disease or due to complications associated with the therapy administered to treat metastatic disease. Approximately one-quarter of children with solid tumors will present with metastatic disease, and an additional 20% ultimately develop metastatic disease, most commonly in the lung. The role of surgery in the treatment of metastatic solid tumors, given its disseminated nature, is not intuitive, yet there are circumstances in which surgical resection of metastatic disease can potentially be curative. However, the utility of surgery is very much dependent on histology, and generally is most appropriate for those malignancies with histologies that are refractory to other adjuvant therapies.
Recent years have witnessed marked improvement in cytotoxic treatments with a parallel increase in patient survival. Despite efforts done to minimize long-term side effects of these treatment regimens, it is estimated that 40% of survivors of pediatric cancer will suffer from those. Some will be mild whereas others such as impaired fertility will be a heavy load on parents柳 expectations and patient柳s quality of life. Gonadal damage and severe loss of function is not a rare condition among children cured for cancer. Despite the young age of those patients, methods exist to try to reduce gonadal insult or to preserve gonadal function. Some of them are well studied and controlled; others are more experimental with encouraging results so far. This article aims to summarize all the procedures that can be offered to young patients treated for cancer in order to protect, as possible, their fertility potential.
Survival rate for childhood cancer has increased in recent years, reaching as high as 70% in developed countries compared with 54% for all cancers diagnosed in the 1980s. In the remaining 30%, progression or metastatic disease leads to death and in this framework palliative care has an outstanding role though not well settled in all its facets. In this landscape, surgery has a supportive actor role integrated with other welfare aspects from which are not severable. The definition of surgical palliation has moved from the ancient definition of noncurative surgery to a group of practices performed not to cure but to alleviate an organ dysfunction offering the best quality of life possible in all the aspects of life (pain, dysfunctions, caregivers, psychosocial, etc.). To emphasize this aspect a more modern definition has been introduced: palliative therapy in whose context is comprised not only the care assistance but also the plans of care since the onset of illness, teaching the matter to surgeons in training and share paths. Literature is very poor regarding surgical aspects specifically dedicated and all researches (PubMed, Google Scholar, and Cochrane) with various meshing terms result in a more oncologic and psychosocial effort.
Surgeons play a pivotal role in the decision-making and multidisciplinary management of childhood solid tumours.1 Evidence-based medicine-'aims to optimise decision making by emphasising on the use of best evidence from well-designed conducted research.' This article offers a brief overview in an effort to demonstrate how a selection of well-conducted, recently published studies can help address some topical and controversial themes in paediatric surgical oncology practice.
BACKGROUND Pediatric intraoperative emergencies are rare but it is crucial for an anesthesia resident to be proficient in their management. Even the more common emergencies like anaphylaxis may not happen frequently for this proficiency to occur. Simulation increases exposure to these rare events in a safe learning environment to improve skills and build confidence while standardizing curriculum.   OBJECTIVE Anesthesia residents participated in a simulated case of intraoperative pediatric anaphylaxis to evaluate knowledge and performance gaps. The study also sought to determine whether a difference exists between second- (CA2) and third-year (CA3) anesthesia residents when managing pediatric anaphylaxis and cardiopulmonary arrest.   METHODS Anesthesia residents completed a standardized programmed simulation of intraoperative anaphylaxis in a 5-year old undergoing tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy. Anaphylaxis presented and progressed to bradycardia and pulseless electrical activity if anaphylaxis went unnoticed or untreated. Key time points were recorded. A scripted debriefing and written evaluation followed.   RESULTS Average time to diagnose anaphylaxis was 7.6혻min, and time to give epinephrine was 6.5혻min. Thirty-five percent of residents started epinephrine infusion following initial bolus. Average time calling for help between CA3 and CA2 residents was 2.5혻min vs 5혻min (P혻=혻0.01). CA3 residents verbalized a broader differential, including malignant hyperthermia and pneumothorax. Progression to pulseless electrical activity occurred in 65% of sessions prior to epinephrine being administered. No resident initiated chest compressions for bradycardia.   CONCLUSIONS Important performance deficits were seen in senior anesthesia residents during a simulated case of pediatric intraoperative anaphylaxis. Although CA3 performed better, deficits still existed. Anesthesia residents and training programs should partner in developing additional training recognizing anaphylaxis, pulseless electrical activity, and indication for chest compressions in a child.
OBJECTIVE Because of concern over medical ionizing radiation exposure of children, contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) has generated interest as an inexpensive, ionizing radiation-free alternative to CT and MRI. CEUS has received approval for pediatric hepatic use but remains off-label for a range of other applications. The purposes of this study were to retrospectively analyze adverse incidents encountered in pediatric CEUS and to assess the financial benefits of reducing the number of CT and MRI examinations performed.   MATERIALS AND METHODS All pediatric (patients 18 years and younger) CEUS examinations performed between January 2008 and December 2015 were reviewed. All immediate reactions deemed due to contrast examinations were documented in radiology reports. Electronic patient records were examined for adverse reactions within 24 hours not due to an underlying pathologic condition. With tariffs from the U.K. National Institute of Clinical Excellence analysis, CEUS utilization cost ($94) was compared with the CT ($168) and MRI ($274) costs of the conventional imaging pathway.   RESULTS The records of 305 pediatric patients (187 boys, 118 girls; age range, 1 month-18 years) undergoing CEUS were reviewed. Most of the studies were for characterizing liver lesions (147/305 [48.2%]) and trauma (113/305 [37.1%]); the others were for renal, vascular, and intracavitary assessment (45/305 [14.8%]). No immediate adverse reactions occurred. Delayed adverse reactions occurred in two patients (2/305 [0.7%]). These reactions were transient hypertension and transient tachycardia. Neither was symptomatic, and both were deemed not due to the underlying disorder. The potential cost savings of CEUS were $74 per examination over CT and $180 over MRI.   CONCLUSION Pediatric CEUS is a safe and potentially cost-effective imaging modality. Using it allows reduction in the ionizing radiation associated with CT and in the gadolinium contrast administration, sedation, and anesthesia sometimes required for MRI.
BACKGROUND To create a self-reported, internet-based questionnaire for the assessment of suicide risk in children and adolescents.   METHODS As part of the EU project 'Suicidality: Treatment Occurring in Paediatrics' (STOP project), we developed web-based Patient Reported Outcome Measures (PROMs) for children and adolescents and for proxy reports by parents and clinicians in order to assess suicidality. Based on a literature review, expert panels and focus groups of patients, we developed the items of the STOP Suicidality Assessment Scale (STOP-SAS) in Spanish and English, translated it into four more languages, and optimized it for web-based presentation using the HealthTrackerTM platform. Of the total 19 questions developed for the STOP-SAS, four questions that assess low-level suicidality were identified as screening questions (three of them for use with children, and all four for use with adolescents, parents and clinicians). A total of 395 adolescents, 110 children, 637 parents and 716 clinicians completed the questionnaire using the HealthTrackerTM, allowing us to evaluate the internal consistency and convergent validity of the STOP-SAS with the clinician-rated Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS). Validity was also assessed with the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) area of the STOP-SAS with the C-SSRS.   RESULTS The STOP-SAS comprises 19 items in its adolescent, parent, and clinician versions, and 14 items in its children's version. Good internal consistency was found for adolescents (Cronbach's alpha: 0.965), children (Cronbach's alpha: 0.922), parents (Cronbach's alpha: 0.951) and clinicians (Cronbach's alpha: 0.955) versions. A strong correlation was found between the STOP-SAS and the C-SSRS for adolescents (r:0.670), parents (r:0.548), clinicians (r:0.863) and children (r:0.654). The ROC area was good for clinicians' (0.917), adolescents' (0.834) and parents' (0.756) versions but only fair (0.683) for children's version.   CONCLUSIONS The STOP-SAS is a comprehensive, web-based PROM developed on the HealthTrackerTM platform, and co-designed for use by adolescents, children, parents and clinicians. It allows the evaluation of aspects of suicidality and shows good reliability and validity.
Psychosocial distress and poorer quality of life after renal transplantation are common in children and young people. This has implications for medication adherence and survival. Posttransplant psychology annual reviews were introduced in one Paediatric Renal Service in the UK as a means of measuring psychological distress and quality of life, as well as facilitating identification of patients and parents/carers who would benefit from psychological intervention. The process of completing posttransplant psychology annual reviews is discussed within this paper. The posttransplant psychology annual review appointments identified patients experiencing depression and/or anxiety and problems in quality of life. These assessments have led to appropriate referrals to, and engagement with, the renal psychology service as well as with community tier 3 child and adolescent mental health services. The posttransplant psychology annual review will continue to be completed at this UK site and discussions will be undertaken with other paediatric renal transplant services to consider whether these could be introduced at a national level to facilitate collection of longitudinal data regarding long-term psychosocial impact of paediatric renal transplantation and its effect on quality of life.
STUDY OBJECTIVE To determine the effectiveness of a new pediatric and adolescent gynecology (PAG) curriculum for improving obstetrics/gynecology resident physician knowledge and comfort level in patient management and to describe the current deficiencies in resident physician knowledge and comfort level in PAG.   DESIGN A PAG curriculum was implemented for the obstetrics/gynecology resident physicians (n혻=혻20) at the University of South Florida in July 2013. Before and after the curriculum was introduced, resident physicians and recent graduates of the residency program completed a survey to assess their comfort level and a knowledge assessment consisting of 20 case-based questions.   SETTING University-based residency program.   PARTICIPANTS Resident physicians and recent resident physician graduates in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology.   INTERVENTIONS Introduction of a PAG curriculum during the 2013-2014 academic year.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Improvement in resident physicians' comfort level and knowledge in PAG.   RESULTS After the curriculum was introduced, comfort increased in examining the genitals of a pediatric gynecology patient (median difference혻=혻1.5; P혻=혻.003) and history-taking, physical examination skills, and management (median difference혻=혻1; P혻=혻.002) compared with before the curriculum. There was no significant difference in overall quiz score (15.5혻짹혻1.87 vs 15.8혻짹혻1.3; P혻=혻.78).   CONCLUSION A curriculum in PAG did improve resident comfort level in managing PAG patients, but did not significantly improve knowledge of this topic.
Patient- and family-centered care began in pediatrics more than two decades ago, and pediatric care has continued to lead the way in acknowledging and supporting family presence and participation in patient care and decision-making. However, many adult hospitals still have 'visiting' policies that restrict the potential for true partnerships with families and other care partners. A national campaign, Better Together: Partnering with Families, developed by the Institute for Patient- and Families-Centered Care (IPFCC), urges all hospitals--pediatric and adult--to welcome families 24/7. Despite the leadership of pediatrics in family-centered care, even in children's hospitals, policy and practice must continue to evolve to strengthen partnerships with families, as described in a profile of C.S. Mott Children's Hospital and the University of Michigan Health System.
Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) generally appears after puberty, is infrequently seen in younger children, and early onset, which is associated with more widespread disease, is more common in children with a positive family history of HS. When compared with adults with HS, children with HS are more likely to have hormonal imbalances, making hormonal investigations integral to disease management in pediatric patients. HS affects intertriginous areas, presenting with double-ended comedones, tender subcutaneous nodules, purulent discharge, and the formation of sinus tracts, hypertrophic fibrotic scars, and dermal contractures. Treatment of HS in children has not been well studied. The goals of therapy in the pediatric setting are to alleviate pain, minimize inflammation and scarring, prevent disease progression, and postpone the need for surgery. Mild cases can be treated with topical antibiotics, while topical and oral antibiotics are the primary therapies for moderate forms of HS. Modalities like biologic agents, laser therapy, or surgery have been reserved for severe pediatric cases of HS. Early recognition and treatment are critical to minimize the effects of the disease on the life course. Given the significant impact of the condition on quality of life and self-esteem, there is a clear role for psychological support.
BACKGROUND In Italy, the number of accesses to the Emergency Units has been growing for the past 30 years. This, together with a low coordination between hospital and peripheral pediatric services, has brought to an unnecessarily high number of hospital admissions. For this reason, it is essential to plan and implement strategies able to improve the appropriateness of hospital admissions. In the '90s, the Short Stay Observation was extended to pediatric patients. As highlighted by the report 'Guidelines for Pediatric Observation Units' (2005), patients receive considerable benefits from a short hospital permanence. The purpose of the study is to report data about the Pediatric Emergency Room activities in Italy.   METHODS In 2011, the Italian Society of Pediatrics promoted an online data collection to investigate organization and activity of Italian Pediatric and Neonatal Units. A form, containing 140 questions, was sent to 624 Pediatric and Neonatology Units. This study will be focused only on data regarding pediatric Emergency Rooms (E.R.) and Observation Units.   RESULTS 237 units replied, 183 if we focus on units with pediatric inpatient service. Based on the results, E.R Units were provided with a dedicated pediatrician in 56 % of the cases: of these, 85 % for 24 h. The majority of the patients were seen by a pediatrician. In only 8 % of the units, patients visited by a pediatrician were less than 40 %. The age limit was 14 years in 60 % of the cases. In 72 % of participating units a E.R. triage was carried out. Only 18 % of units registered more than 10000 E.R. visits/year. The percentage of children hospitalized after accessing the E.R. was significantly higher in southern regions (more than 20 % of the units hospitalized more than 40 % of children entering the E.R.). 66 % of the units were provided with an Observation Unit. In 61 % of the cases, the duration did not exceed 24 h. In more than half of the structures, less than 10 % of the E.R. visits went into observation. The type of remuneration was not homogeneous.   CONCLUSIONS The study highlights the heterogeneity of the Italian reality, with great possibilities for improvement, especially in southern regions.
The role of the pediatrician in today's health care environment is one of constant evolution, as specialty care becomes more difficult to access for a growing number of young patients and their families. The primary care doctor will now have to offer more reassurance and follow-up that was once thought to be solely the role of the subspecialist. This article helps to define commonly seen entities in pediatric gynecology and offers the necessary background enabling the practitioner to provide a simple course of treatment, reassurance, or appropriate referral for specialty care.
Early recognition of a patient who might have Fancomi anemia by the general pediatrician and referral to a tertiary care center with a dedicated cancer risk program is critical for early diagnosis. Genetic testing and close multidisciplinary surveillance is required for patients with this syndrome and their families because of its multisystem involvement and propensity for early-onset bone marrow failure and leukemic transformation. This article reviews the clinical symptoms and signs, radiologic findings, and screening guidelines of FA for the general pediatrician.
INTRODUCTION 26 million Americans have limited English proficiency (LEP). It is well established that language barriers adversely affect health and health care. Despite growing awareness of language barriers, there is essentially a void in the medical literature regarding the influence of language disparity on pediatric surgery patients. This study was designed to assess the impact of patient-provider language concordance on question-asking behavior and patient satisfaction for pediatric surgery patients.   METHODS Participants included families of patients in a General Pediatric Surgery Clinic categorized into 3 groups by patient-provider language concordance: concordant English-speaking, LEP concordant Spanish-speaking, and LEP discordant Spanish-speaking using an interpreter. Clinical visits were audio recorded and the number of patient-initiated questions and the length of clinical encounter were measured. Families were administered a surgery-specific, 5-point Likert scale questionnaire modeled after validated surveys concerning communication, trust, perceived discrimination and patient-provider language concordance. Regression models were performed to analyze associations between language concordance and patient's question-asking behavior and between language concordance and survey results.   RESULTS A total of 156 participants were enrolled including 57 concordant-English, 52 LEP concordant-Spanish and 47 LEP-discordant-Spanish. There was significant variation in the mean number of patient-initiated questions among the groups (p=0.002). Both the English and Spanish concordant groups asked a similar number of questions (p=0.9), and they both asked more questions compared to the Spanish-discordant participants (p=0.002 and p=0.001). Language discordance was associated with fewer questions asked after adjustment for socioeconomic status. Language concordant participants rated higher scores of communication. Both Spanish-concordant and Spanish-discordant patients reported significantly increased preference for, and value of language concordant care. Language discordant participants reported that they desired to ask more questions but were limited by a language barrier (p=0.001).   CONCLUSIONS In a pediatric surgery clinic, language concordant care increases the number of patient-asked questions during a clinical visit and improves communication suggesting that discordant care is a potential source of disparities in access to information. Future efforts should focus on expanding access to language concordant providers in other surgery subspecialties as a step towards limiting disparities in surgical care for all patients.
Tuberculosis (TB) is still the world's second most frequent cause of death due to infectious diseases after HIV infection, and this has aroused greater interest in identifying and managing exposed subjects, whether they are simply infected or have developed one of the clinical variants of the disease. Unfortunately, not even the latest laboratory techniques are always successful in identifying affected children because they are more likely to have negative cultures and tuberculin skin test results, equivocal chest X-ray findings, and atypical clinical manifestations than adults. Furthermore, they are at greater risk of progressing from infection to active disease, particularly if they are very young. Consequently, pediatricians have to use different diagnostic strategies that specifically address the needs of children. This document describes the recommendations of a group of scientific societies concerning the signs and symptoms suggesting pediatric TB, and the diagnostic approach towards children with suspected disease.
Health workers in conflict-hit eastern Ukraine are gaining new skills that may prove invaluable in peacetime too. Andrei Shukshin reports.
BACKGROUND The Healthy Homes/Healthy Kids Preschool (HHHK-Preschool) pilot program is an obesity prevention intervention integrating pediatric care provider counseling and a phone-based program to prevent unhealthy weight gain among 2- to 4-year-old children at risk for obesity (BMI percentile between the 50th and 85th percentile and at least one overweight parent) or currently overweight (85th percentile  BMI < 95th percentile). The aim of this randomized, controlled pilot study was to evaluate the feasibility, acceptability, and potential efficacy of the HHHK-Preschool intervention.   METHODS Sixty parent-child dyads recruited from pediatric primary care clinics were randomized to: (1) the Busy Bodies/Better Bites Obesity Prevention Arm or the (2) Healthy Tots/Safe Spots safety/injury prevention Contact Control Arm. Baseline and 6-month data were collected, including measured height and weight, accelerometry, previous day dietary recalls, and parent surveys. Intervention process data (e.g., call completion) were also collected.   RESULTS High intervention completion and satisfaction rates were observed. Although a statistically significant time by treatment interaction was not observed for BMI percentile or BMI z-score, post-hoc examination of baseline weight status as a moderator of treatment outcome showed that the Busy Bodies/Better Bites obesity prevention intervention appeared to be effective among children who were in the overweight category at baseline relative to those who were categorized as at risk for obesity (p=0.04).   CONCLUSIONS HHHK-Preschool pilot study results support the feasibility, acceptability, and potential efficacy in already overweight children of a pediatric primary care-based obesity prevention intervention integrating brief provider counseling and parent-targeted phone coaching. What's New: Implementing pediatric primary care-based obesity interventions is challenging. Previous interventions have primarily involved in-person sessions, a barrier to sustained parent involvement. HHHK-preschool pilot study results suggest that integrating brief provider counseling and parent-targeted phone coaching is a promising approach.
BACKGROUND As US health care increasingly focuses on outcomes as a means for quantifying quality, there is a growing demand for risk models that can account for the variability of patients treated at different hospitals so that equitable comparisons between institutions can be made. We sought to apply aspects of prior risk-standardization methodology to begin development of a risk-standardization tool for the National Cardiovascular Data Registry (NCDR) IMPACT (Improving Pediatric and Adult Congenital Treatment) Registry.   METHODS AND RESULTS Using IMPACT, we identified all patients undergoing diagnostic or interventional cardiac catheterization between January 2011 and March 2013. Multivariable hierarchical logistic regression was used to identify patient and procedural characteristics predictive of experiencing a major adverse event after cardiac catheterization. A total of 19,608 cardiac catheterizations were performed between January 2011 and March 2013. Among all cases, a major adverse event occurred in 378 of all cases (1.9%). After multivariable adjustment, 8 variables were identified as critical for risk standardization: patient age, renal insufficiency, single-ventricle physiology, procedure-type risk group, low systemic saturation, low mixed venous saturation, elevated systemic ventricular end-diastolic pressure, and elevated main pulmonary artery pressures. The model had good discrimination (C statistic, 0.70), confirmed by bootstrap validation (validation C statistic, 0.69).   CONCLUSIONS Using prior risk-standardization efforts as a foundation, we developed and internally validated a model to predict the occurrence of a major adverse event after cardiac catheterization for congenital heart disease. Future efforts should be directed toward further refinement of the model variables within this large, multicenter data set.
BACKGROUND A shortage of pediatric surgeons exists. The purpose of this study was to evaluate pediatric outcomes using pediatric surgeons vs adult trauma surgeons.   METHODS A review was conducted at 2 level II pediatric trauma centers. Center I provides 24-hour in-house trauma surgeons for resuscitations, with patient hand-off to a pediatric surgery service. Center II provides 24-hour in-house senior surgical resident coverage with an on-call trauma surgeon. Data on demographics, resource utilization, and outcomes were collected.   RESULTS Center I patients were more severely injured (injury severity score = 8.3 vs 6.2; Glasgow coma scale score = 13.7 vs 14.3). Center I patients were more often admitted to the intensive care unit (52.2% vs 33.5%) and more often mechanically ventilated (12.9% vs 7.7%), with longer hospital length of stay (2.8 vs 2.3혻days). However, mortality was not different between Center I and II (3.1% vs 2.4%). By logistic regression analyses, the only variables predictive of mortality were injury severity score and Glasgow coma scale score.   CONCLUSION As it appears that trauma surgeons' outcomes compare favorably with those of pediatric surgeons, utilizing adult trauma surgeons may help alleviate shortages in pediatric surgeon coverage.
BACKGROUND Neonatal endotracheal intubation is a necessary skill. However, success rates among junior doctors have fallen to <50%, largely owing to declining opportunities to intubate. Videolaryngoscopy allows instructor and trainee to share the view of the pharynx. We compared intubations guided by an instructor watching a videolaryngoscope screen with the traditional method where the instructor does not have this view.   METHODS A randomized, controlled trial at a tertiary neonatal center recruited newborns from February 2013 to May 2014. Eligible intubations were performed orally on infants without facial or airway anomalies, in the delivery room or neonatal intensive care, by doctors with <6 months' tertiary neonatal experience. Intubations were randomized to having the videolaryngoscope screen visible to the instructor or covered (control). The primary outcome was first-attempt intubation success rate confirmed by colorimetric detection of expired carbon dioxide.   RESULTS Two hundred six first-attempt intubations were analyzed. Median (interquartile range) infant gestation was 29 (27 to 32) weeks, and weight was 1142 (816 to 1750) g. The success rate when the instructor was able to view the videolaryngoscope screen was 66% (69/104) compared with 41% (42/102) when the screen was covered (P < .001, OR 2.81, 95% CI 1.54 to 5.17). When premedication was used, the success rate in the intervention group was 72% (56/78) compared with 44% (35/79) in the control group (P < .001, OR 3.2, 95% CI 1.6 to 6.6).   CONCLUSIONS Intubation success rates of inexperienced neonatal trainees significantly improved when the instructor was able to share their view on a videolaryngoscope screen.
PURPOSE To assess radiation dose in common pediatric diagnostic fluoroscopy procedures and determine the efficacy of dose tracking and dose reduction training to reduce radiation use.   METHODS Fluoroscopy time and radiation dose area product (DAP) were recorded for upper GIs (UGI), voiding cystourethrograms (VCUGs), and barium enemas (BEs) during a six-month period. The results were presented to radiologists followed by a 1-hour training session on radiation dose reduction methods. Data were recorded for an additional six months. DAP was normalized to fluoroscopy time, and Wilcoxon testing was used to assess for differences between groups.   RESULTS Data from 1,479 cases (945 pretraining and 530 post-training) from 9 radiologists were collected. No statistically significant difference was found in patient age, proportion of examination types, or fluoroscopy time between the pre- and post-training groups (P  .1), with the exception of a small decrease in median fluoroscopy time for VCUGs (1.0 vs 0.9 minutes, P = .04). For all examination types, a statistically significant decrease was found in the median normalized DAP (P < .05) between pre- and post-training groups. The median (quartiles) for pretraining and post-training normalized DAPs (關Gy쨌m(2) per minute) were 14.36 (5.00, 38.95) and 6.67 (2.67, 17.09) for UGIs; 13.00 (5.34, 32.71) and 7.16 (2.73, 19.85) for VCUGs; and 33.14 (9.80, 85.26) and 17.55 (7.96, 46.31) for BEs.   CONCLUSIONS Radiation dose tracking with feedback, paired with dose reduction training, can reduce radiation dose during diagnostic pediatric fluoroscopic procedures by nearly 50%.
PURPOSE To identify factors related to the psychosocial adjustment of healthy siblings of children with cancer (HSCC).   DESIGN AND METHOD An integrative review was conducted. Controlled vocabularies relevant to siblings, pediatrics, children, neoplasms, and psychosocial adaptation were used to search Cumulative Index to Nursing & Allied Health Literature and PubMed. Articles that met inclusion criteria (eg, quantitative studies related to HSCC's psychosocial adjustment; had sample sizes of at least 30; and HSCC age between 1 and 19 years) were reviewed. Key findings of selected articles were analyzed according to sibling characteristics, social support, and contextual factors.   RESULTS Seven nonexperimental and 5 quasi-experimental studies were reviewed. HSCC's characteristics (eg, age, gender), perceived social support from family and summer camp, and perceived contextual factors (eg, role overload, family adaptability) were significant factors that correlated with HSCC's psychosocial adjustment.   CONCLUSION When caring for a child diagnosed with cancer, nurses need to include HSCC in the assessment of a family unit's adaptation to cancer distress and provide appropriate interventions to promote HSCC's psychosocial well-being.
Depression is one of the most debilitating chronic disorders in the United States, affecting 15 million children in homes with depressed mothers, many of whom endure household chaos, inconsistent nurturing, inadequate safety practices, and harsh discipline. Depressed mothers are under diagnosed and undertreated, yet there is broad consensus about the importance of identifying and managing maternal depression, as reflected in recommendations by pediatric and obstetric professional organizations to routinely screen for perinatal depression. Screening was shown to be acceptable to women and most pediatric providers, and adding a screening component need not impair clinic efficiency. Screening, however, is not sufficient, and there are few models in the literature to guide medical practices in implementing successful interventions to identify, treat, and prevent maternal depression, particularly in the pediatric setting. We reviewed the literature and identified six studies that evaluated models for screening and managing mothers' depression in pediatric primary care settings. Some of these interventions have promise, but no studies characterized health outcomes of the depressed mothers and children. We discuss the components of these models, their implementation, and the practice and research needed to create effective pediatrics-based systems to reduce the negative effects of maternal depression on mothers, children, and families.
INTRODUCTION This study assesses the differences in the presentations, complications and metabolic abnormalities of children with renal calyceal microlithiasis (RCM) and overt urolithiasis in different pediatric ages.   MATERIALS AND METHODS A total of 465 children with urolithiasis were investigated retrospectively. Patients were categorized based on their ages to infancy, early childhood, middle childhood and adolescence. When the hyperechogenic spots on ultrasound imaging were <3 mm, they were considered RCM, and if they were 3 mm, they were considered overt urolithiasis.   RESULTS Metabolic abnormalities were detected in 71%; hyperuricosuria in infants, hyperoxaluria in younger children and hypocitraturia in older children were the most common metabolic abnormalities. Hypercalciuria was the only metabolic abnormality that was significantly associated with overt urolithiasis in all pediatric ages (OR 2.25, 95% CI 1.21-4.19). The clinical presentations were not significantly different between RCM and overt urolithiasis; however, complications such as urinary tract infection was significantly higher with overt urolithiasis in infancy (p = 0.01), early childhood (p = 0.02), middle childhood (p = 0.007) and adolescence (p = 0.01). Also, growth retardation was significantly higher with overt urolithiasis in infancy and early childhood (p = 0.02).   CONCLUSIONS Most children with urolithiasis have underlying urinary metabolic abnormalities that differ according to the child's age. Despite these differences, hypercalciuria is significantly associated with overt urolithiasis in all pediatric ages. Clinical and laboratory features cannot differentiate RCM and overt urolithiasis; however, complications are significantly higher with overt urolithiasis.
OBJECTIVE This study aims to identify pediatric resident knowledge and attitudes on current practices and ideal gestational age (GA) thresholds for offering and mandating resuscitation, and the role of influencing factors in decision-making.   STUDY DESIGN Pediatric residents were assessed via electronic survey at a large academic institution.   RESULT A total of 62% of the residents identified 23 weeks as the lower threshold for resuscitation, despite 84 and 89% reporting that practices are inconsistent and unclear, respectively. Only 21% identified 24 weeks as the latest GA that parents may decline. The majority disagreed with our current practices, identifying older GA as appropriate for all thresholds. They reported scientific evidence as undervalued, and attending physicians' personal beliefs as overvalued in decision-making.   CONCLUSION Our residents recognize decision-making for extremely preterm infants consistent with general guidelines for management based on population outcomes, but attribute these decisions to physicians' personal beliefs. Preferences for higher GA thresholds for resuscitation may reflect disproportionate pessimism about these patients or diverse values regarding autonomy.
PURPOSE This article will review the etiology, risk factors, history, and physical assessment of temporomandibular joint disorders (TMDs). In particular, this article discusses the role of the pediatric provider in diagnosing and beginning the initial treatment of TMDs, as well as the appropriate treatment plans. It also reveals some of the controversies regarding etiology and treatment of TMDs, as well as the paucity of research specific to TMDs in pediatrics.   DATA SOURCES A computerized search in PubMed and Ovid Medline, from 2006 to 2012, was conducted. A few seminal articles were included that were published before 2006. Hand searching was also performed, which included a few articles between 2012 and 2015.   CONCLUSIONS Although TMDs are mostly found in adults, it is also a finding in pediatrics, which increases in prevalence during adolescence. More research specific to pediatric patients with TMDs needs to be conducted so that pediatric-specific care can be provided.   IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE TMD is a condition found in the pediatric population, and it is important for providers to take an adequate history and physical examination that incorporates the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) and muscles of mastication. It is also critical that providers begin initial education and management, followed by appropriate referrals.
BACKGROUND Patients increasingly consult online resources for healthcare information. The American Medical Association (AMA) and National Institutes of Health (NIH) recommend that online education resources be written between a 3rd- and 7th-grade level. This study assesses whether online health information abides by these guidelines.   METHODS Ten pediatric ophthalmology conditions were entered into a commonly used search engine, Google.com, and analyzed using 10 validated readability scales. Scientific articles and articles written on patient forums were excluded. The 10 conditions--amblyopia, cataract, conjunctivitis, corneal abrasion, nystagmus, retinoblastoma, retinopathy of prematurity, strabismus, stye, and glaucoma--were also searched and analyzed separately from widely used websites, including Wikipedia and WebMD, as well as those of professional societies, including the American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus (AAPOS) and the American Optometric Association (AOA).   RESULTS The majority of articles were written above recommended guidelines. All scales showed that the 100 articles were written at a mean grade-level of 11.75 짹 2.72. Only 12% of articles were written below a 9th-grade level and only 3% met recommended criteria. The articles accrued separately from Wikipedia, WebMD, AAPOS, and AOA also had average grade levels above the recommended guidelines.   CONCLUSIONS The readability of online patient education material exceeds NIH and AMA guidelines. This disparity can adversely affect caregiver comprehension of such resources and contribute to poor decision making. Pediatric ophthalmology online articles are generally written at a level too high for average caregiver comprehension. Revision of articles can increase satisfaction, improve outcomes, and facilitate the patient-ophthalmologist relationship.
Migraine is a common disorder that starts at an early age and takes a variable pattern from intermittent to chronic headache with several exacerbations throughout a lifetime. Children and adolescents are significantly affected. If an acute headache is not aborted by outpatient migraine therapy, it often causes severe disability, preventing the child from attending school and social events. Treating the acute severe headache aggressively helps prevent prolonged disability as well as possible chronification. Multiple medications are available, mostly for the outpatient management of an attack and include the use of over-the-counter anti-inflammatory medications as well as prescribed medications in the triptan group. These therapies do sometime fail and the exacerbation can last from days to weeks. If the headache lasts 72 hours or longer it will fall in the category of status migrainosus. Status migrainosus is described as a severe disabling headache lasting 72 hours or more by the ICHD3 criteria. Disability is a major issue in children and adolescents and aggressive acute measures are to be taken to control it as soon as possible. Early aggressive intravenous therapy can be very effective in breaking the attack and allowing the child to be quickly back to normal functioning. This article reviews what is available for the treatment of pediatric primary headaches in the emergency room.
OBJECTIVE To analyze health care disparities in pediatric quality of care measures and determine the impact of data imputation.   DATA SOURCES Five HEDIS measures are calculated based on 2012 administrative data for 145,652 children in two public insurance programs in Florida.   METHODS The Bayesian Improved Surname and Geocoding (BISG) imputation method is used to impute missing race and ethnicity data for 42 percent of the sample (61,954 children). Models are estimated with and without the imputed race and ethnicity data.   PRINCIPAL FINDINGS Dropping individuals with missing race and ethnicity data biases quality of care measures for minorities downward relative to nonminority children for several measures.   CONCLUSIONS These results provide further support for the importance of appropriately accounting for missing race and ethnicity data through imputation methods.
Oral aversion is a frequent diagnosis in the pediatric population. For a minority of children, feeding challenges rise to the level of requiring clinical evaluation and intervention. Determining the best evaluation and treatment plan can be challenging, but there is a consensus that treatment for children with a severe oral aversion involves an interdisciplinary approach. Within the team model, multiple strategies have demonstrated effectiveness, including sensorimotor skill building, behavioral modification, hunger provocation, and sensory integration therapy. This tutorial reviews the diagnostic and treatment process for a child with oral aversion, including identification of an underlying etiology, the medical and behavioral evaluation, and formulation of a treatment plan.
PURPOSE Despite numerous advances, survival remains dismal for children and adolescents with poor prognosis cancers or those who relapse or are refractory to first line treatment. There is, therefore, a major unmet need for new drugs. Recent advances in the knowledge of molecular tumor biology open the door to more adapted therapies according to individual alterations. Promising results in the adult anticancer drug development have not yet been translated into clinical practice. We report the activity in early pediatric oncology trials in Spain.   METHODS All members of the Spanish Society of Pediatric Hematology Oncology (SEHOP) were contacted to obtain information about early trials open in each center.   RESULTS 22 phase I and II trials were open as of May 2015: 15 for solid tumors (68혻%) and 7 for hematological malignancies (32혻%). Fourteen (64혻%) were industry sponsored. Since 2010, four centers have joined the Innovative Therapies For Children With Cancer, an international consortium whose aim is developing novel therapies for pediatric cancers. A substantial number of studies have opened in these 5혻years, improving the portfolio of trials for children. Results of recently closed trials show the contribution of Spanish investigators, the introduction of molecularly targeted agents and their benefits.   CONCLUSIONS Clinical trials are the way to evaluate new drugs, avoiding the use of off-label drugs that carry significant risks. The Spanish pediatric oncology community through the SEHOP is committed to develop and participate in collaborative academic trials, to favor the advancement and optimization of existing therapies in pediatric cancer.
The purpose of this article is to illustrate types of diagnostic errors and feedback given to radiologists, using cases to support and clarify these categories. A comment-enhanced peer review system may be leveraged to generate a comprehensive feedback categorization scheme. These include errors of observation, errors of interpretation, inadequate patient data gathering, errors of communication, interobserver variability, informational feedback, and compliments. Much of this feedback is captured through comments associated with interpretative agreements.
Evaluation of mediastinal lymphadenopathy in children is challenging and surgical procedures (mediastinoscopy/thoracotomy) are usually performed wherever tissue sampling is required. Endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA) is a widely utilized and minimally invasive modality for evaluation of mediastinum (lymphadenopathy, masses, and nodal staging in patients with lung cancer) in adults. Smaller size of pediatric trachea potentially limits the use of EBUS. The EBUS bronchoscope can also be introduced into the esophagus for mediastinal evaluation and sampling, a technique described as transesophageal bronchoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-B-FNA). We herein report the successful utilization of EUS-B-FNA to obtain diagnostic mediastinal lymph node sampling in a 3-year-old child. The procedure was accomplished under moderate conscious sedation without any procedural complications. EUS-B-FNA, by obviating entry of EBUS scope into small pediatric trachea and reduced anesthesia requirement can evolve into an extremely useful modality for evaluation of pediatric mediastinal lymphadenopathy.
INTRODUCTION Ataxia telangiectasia (AT)혻is a neurodegenerative disorder with cerebellar and extrapyramidal features. Interventional and epidemiological studies in AT should rely on specific scales which encompass the specific neurological features, as well the early progressive course and the subsequent plateau. The aim of this study was to build a scale of the CGI type (Clinical Global Impression) which is disease specific, as well as to check the feasibility of the ICARS scale for ataxia in this population.   METHODS We recruited 63 patients with ataxia, aged 10.76혻짹혻3.2 years, followed at 6 international AT centers, 49 of them (77.8%) with classical AT. All patients were evaluated for ataxia with ICARS scale. In patients with AT, two CGI scales were scored, unstructured as structured for which separate anchors were provided.   RESULTS Mean ICARS score was 44.7혻짹혻20.52, and it's severity positively correlated with age (Spearman correlation, r혻=혻0.46, p혻<혻0.01). Mean CGI score was 2 (moderately involved). There was a high correlation between the structured and unstructured CGIs (Spearman correlation, r혻=혻0.87, p혻<혻0.01). Both CGI scales showed positive correlation between severity and increasing age (Spearman correlation r혻=혻0.59, p혻<혻0.01 for structured CGI and r혻=혻0.61, p혻<혻0.01 for unstructured).   DISCUSSION We succeeded to build two CGI scales: structured and unstructured, which are disease specific for AT. The unstructured scale showed better connection to disease course; the sensitivity of the unstructured scale could be improved by adding anchors related to extrapyramidal features. In addition we showed that ataxia can be reliably measured in children with AT by using ICARS.
BACKGROUND Quantitative assessment of hemodynamic parameters is an important element of ophthalmic diagnostics especially in early detection of myopia, glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy. The assessment of hemodynamic changes is essential in evaluating of the efficiency of treatment. Objective: Our aim was to determine the adequate of eye hemodynamics assessment using reoophtalmography in patients with various clinical refractions.   METHODS A controlled study was carried out. All tests were performed using transpalpebral tetrapolar method. Signal registration lasted for 20 seconds in the supine position, and then the diagnostic parameters were calculated.   RESULTS We present the results of examination of 76 patients aged 5 to 22 years (average age 13.0 짹 1.1). 32 patients had low myopia (62 reoophtalmography records), 23 patients had moderate myopia (42 records) and 5 patients had high myopia (12 records). The control group was composed of 16 patients. The main differences were found in the rheographic index, which is equal to 58.1 짹 4.1 mOhm in the control group. It is significantly reducing with refraction increase, from 47.8 짹 3.2 mOhm in low myopia to 34.0 짹 2.5 mOhm in high myopia (p = 0.050). This is an evidence of blood supply deficiency in the myopic eyes.   CONCLUSION Rheographic index was shown to differ in different breathing phases, which agrees with the known physiological regularities. The proposed method is highly informative and sufficiently accurate what allows assessing the eye blood supply state objectively. It is easy to apply and requires no contact with the eye surface, which is especially important in pediatric practice.
OBJECTIVE The incidence of acute pancreatitis (AP) in childhood has increased in the last 2 decades, yet management has been largely extrapolated from adult studies. We sought to determine whether there is a consensus for treatment of AP among different pediatric subspecialists.   METHODS Providers from subspecialties seeing most patients admitted for AP were surveyed on their practice patterns in managing a first attack of uncomplicated AP.   RESULTS From November 2009 to August 2013, there were 284 admissions for patients with AP to our center. Patients were primarily admitted to the gastroenterology or hospitalist service (39% and 26%, respectively). Survey results found practice patterns for diagnostic evaluation, fluid resuscitation, pain management, and introduction of nutrition were variable between practitioners belonging to different subspecialties as well as within the same subspecialty group.   CONCLUSIONS There is a lack of consensus on management of acute uncomplicated pancreatitis among pediatric providers, which may be improved through development of evidence-based pediatric guidelines.
BACKGROUND This study aimed to develop a tool in identifying traumatized children at low risk of pelvic fracture and to determine the sensitivity of this low-risk model for pelvic fractures. We hypothesized that the proportion of children without predictors with pelvic fracture is less than 1%.   METHODS This is a retrospective trauma registry analysis of previously healthy children 1 year to 17 years old presenting to the pediatric emergency department with blunt trauma. Postulated predictors of pelvic fracture on radiograph or computed tomography included pain/abnormal examination result of the pelvis/hip, femur deformity, hematuria, abdominal pain/tenderness, Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of 13 or lower, and hemodynamic instability. We used multivariable logistic regression to identify independent predictors of fracture.   RESULTS Of 1,121 eligible patients (mean [SD] age, 8.5 [4.6] years), 87 (7.8%) had pelvic fracture. Independent predictors included pain/abnormal examination result of the pelvis/hip (odds ratio [OR], 16.7; 95% confidence interval [CI], 9.6-29.1), hematuria (OR, 6.6; 95% CI, 3.0-14.6), femoral deformity (OR, 5.9; 95% CI, 3.1-11.3), GCS score of 13 or lower (OR, 2.4; 95% CI, 1.3-4.3), and hemodynamic instability (OR, 3.4; 95% CI, 1.7-6.9). One of 590 children (0.2%; 95% CI, 0-0.5%) without predictors had pelvic fractures versus 86 (16.2%) of 531 in those with one or more predictors (OR, 119; 95% CI, 16.6-833). One of 87 children with pelvic fractures had no predictors (1.1%; 95% CI, 0-3%). When assuming a 100% radiography rate, this tool saves 53% pelvic radiographs.   CONCLUSION Children with multiple blunt trauma without pain/abnormal examination result of the pelvis/hip, femur deformity, hematuria, abdominal pain/tenderness, GCS score of 13 or lower, or hemodynamic instability constitute a low-risk population for pelvic fracture, with less than 0.5% risk rate. This population does not require routine pelvic imaging.   LEVEL OF EVIDENCE Therapeutic study, level IV.
The 2015 Position Statement on Breastfeeding of The Italian Pediatric Societies (SIP, SIN, SICupp, SIGENP) recognizes breastfeeding as an healthy behaviour with many short and long term benefits for both mother and infant.While protecting, promoting and supporting breastfeeding, neonatologists and pediatricians need specific knowledge, skills and a positive attitude toward breastfeeding. In Maternity Hospitals and in Neonatal Units, appropriate organizative interventions should be applied in order to facilitate the beginning of breastfeeding and the use of mother's/human milk.The Italian Pediatric Societies indicate the desiderable goal of around 6혻months exclusive breastfeeding if the infant grows properly according to WHO Growth Charts. In principle, complementary feeding should not be anticipated before 6혻months as a nutritional strategy pretending to prevent allergy and/or celiac disease. Eventually, long term breastfeeding should be supported meeting mother's desire.
Effective transition to adult care is a significant component of an emerging adult's diabetes care. Poor transition places them at risk for disengagement with the health care system and for poor diabetes-related outcomes. The purpose of this paper was to review the literature to date on existing methods of transition care delivery for emerging adults with diabetes. We conducted a literature review using MEDLINE via OvidSP and searching the grey literature. Papers published in English between January 1, 2000 and March 25, 2015 that evaluated transition care programs for emerging adults with diabetes were included. 16 original studies, 1 study protocol and 1 technical brief describing transition programs were reviewed. Common components of care included transition care coordination, young adult clinics, transition preparation, familiarity with adult health care providers and support groups. Overall, when emerging adults are supported during the transition period, clinic attendance and glycemic control can be maintained or improved, and diabetes-related complications reduced. Despite widespread support in the literature for the need for structured transition care delivery, methodologically strong research evaluating transition care services remains limited. The literature to date encompasses a variety of care models that lack consistency in outcome measurements as well as lacking frameworks describing the interventions, which impedes comparison across studies. Further research, using a consistent framework for transition care program design, delivery and evaluation as well as reporting of outcomes, is needed to inform how best to deliver transition care services to this vulnerable population.
BACKGROUND Children's environmental health (CEH), the branch of pediatrics that studies the influence of the environment on children's health, has grown substantially in the past 3 decades and become an increasingly visible and important component of pediatric medicine.   GOALS To trace the historical origins of CEH; to identify factors responsible for its recent growth.   FINDINGS CEH has historical roots in toxicology, epidemiology, and occupational medicine. It arose in the second half of the 20th century through a melding of insights from pediatric toxicology, nutritional epidemiology, and social science research. Convergent research in these 3 fields has documented children's unique sensitivities to chemical, nutritional, and psychosocial hazards during windows of vulnerability in early development and has shown that early-life exposures can produce disease and disability in childhood and across the life span. Key events in the development of CEH were: 1) formation by the American Academy of Pediatrics in 1957 of a committee on environmental health that has nurtured the growth of the field for 5 decades and evolved into the Council on Environmental Health; 2) observations made in the 1980s that nutritional deficiency in utero increased risk for adult-onset obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease-work that led to the hypothesis of the developmental origins of health and disease; 3) social science research showing that early exposure to psychosocial stress and trauma increases risk for chronic illness; and 4) publication in 1993 by the National Academy of Sciences of a report, Pesticides in the Diets of Infants and Children, which elevated awareness among national policy makers of children's vulnerability to toxic hazards, moved US environmental policy toward protection of children's health, and catalyzed research investment in CEH in the United States and globally.   CONCLUSIONS CEH has made substantial progress but faces emerging challenges, including new chemicals and pesticides; increasing movement of polluting industries to poor countries where environmental and public health protections are few; and global climate change. In the future, CEH will require continued investment in research and education and will need to adopt an increasingly global perspective.
BACKGROUND The few studies directly comparing the methodological approach of peer role play (RP) and standardized patients (SP) for the delivery of communication skills all suggest that both methods are effective. In this study we calculated the costs of both methods (given comparable outcomes) and are the first to generate a differential cost-effectiveness analysis of both methods.   METHODS Medical students in their prefinal year were randomly assigned to one of two groups receiving communication training in Pediatrics either with RP (N=34) or 19 individually trained SP (N=35). In an OSCE with standardized patients using the Calgary-Cambridge Referenced Observation Guide both groups achieved comparable high scores (results published). In this study, corresponding costs were assessed as man-hours resulting from hours of work of SP and tutors. A cost-effectiveness analysis was performed.   RESULTS Cost-effectiveness analysis revealed a major advantage for RP as compared to SP (112 vs. 172 man hours; cost effectiveness ratio .74 vs. .45) at comparable performance levels after training with both methods.   CONCLUSIONS While both peer role play and training with standardized patients have their value in medical curricula, RP has a major advantage in terms of cost-effectiveness. This could be taken into account in future decisions.
PURPOSE Guidelines for optimal transition call for multidisciplinary teams, including psychologists, to address youth and young adults' multifactorial needs. This study aimed to characterize psychologists' roles in and barriers to involvement in transition from pediatric to adult health care.   METHODS Psychologists were invited via professional listservs to complete an online survey about practice settings, roles in transition programming, barriers to involvement, and funding sources. Participants also responded to open-ended questions about their experiences in transition programs.   RESULTS One hundred participants responded to the survey. Involvement in transition was reported at multiple levels from individual patient care to institutional transition programming, and 65% reported more than one level of involvement. Direct clinical care (88%), transition-related research (50%), and/or leadership (44%) involvement were reported, with 59% reporting more than one role. Respondents often described advocating for their involvement on transition teams. Various sources of funding were reported, yet, 23% reported no funding for their work. Barriers to work in transition were common and included health care systems issues such as poor coordination among providers or lack of a clear transition plan within the clinic/institution.   CONCLUSIONS Psychologists assume numerous roles in the transition of adolescents from pediatric to adult health care. With training in health care transition-related issues, psychologists are ideally positioned to partner with other health professionals to develop and implement transition programs in multidisciplinary settings, provided health care system barriers can be overcome.
OBJECTIVE Emergency Triage Assessment and Treatment (ETAT) was developed by the WHO to teach paediatric assessment, triage and initial management to healthcare workers (HCWs) in resource-limited hospital-based settings. This study sought to evaluate the extension of ETAT training from a regional hospital to paediatric HCWs at local primary care health centres (PHCs) in Guatemala.   METHODS Prior to providing a 16 h ETAT training module, immediately after, and at 3, 6 and 12꿲onths, we used written pre-tests and post-tests and five-point Likert surveys to evaluate, respectively, clinical knowledge and provider confidence in providing acute care paediatrics; hands-on clinical skills were tested at 3, 6 and 12꿲onths.   RESULTS Fifty-two HCWs (14 general physicians, 38 nurses) from four regional PHCs participated; 65%, 60% and 46% completed 3-month, 6-month and 12-month follow-ups, respectively. Test scores show significant acquisition of clinical knowledge initially, which was retained over time when tested at 3, 6 and 12꿲onths (46 vs 70, p<0.001). Hands-on clinical skills scores demonstrated retention at 3, 6 and 12꿲onths. Although participants were more confident about acute care paediatrics immediately after training (66 vs 104, p<0.001), this decreased with time, though not to pre-intervention levels.   CONCLUSIONS ETAT trainings were successfully extended to PHCs in a resource-limited setting with significant knowledge acquisition and retention over time and improved HCW confidence with acute care paediatrics. This process could serve as a successful model for in-country and international scale-up of ETAT.
Parental concerns are useful tools to help pediatric care providers identify the presence of developmental and behavioral problems. This study sought to learn whether specific parental concerns helped predict diagnoses in a tertiary developmental clinic. Parents of preschoolers who attended a preschool developmental clinic (n = 101) were surveyed about behavioral and developmental concerns and their concerns about possible diagnoses. Clinical diagnoses were subsequently obtained on all children and compared with parents' primary concerns. In our sample, approximately 50% of concerns were about language development and 21% about behavior. The most common diagnoses were communication disorder (41%) and developmental delay (42%). Only 30% of children whose parents had concerns about an autism spectrum diagnosis had actually received that diagnosis. Neither parental concerns about development and behavior nor their concerns about specific diagnosis predict clinical diagnosis in our tertiary developmental setting.
Patient and public involvement in healthcare is important to ensure services meet their needs and priorities. Increasingly, patient experiences are being used to educate healthcare professionals. The potential contribution to medical education of children and parents using hospice services has not yet been fully explored.   OBJECTIVES (1) To explore perceptions of what medical students must learn to become 'good doctors' among children, parents and staff in a hospice. (2) To collaborate with children/parents and staff to develop educational materials based on their lived experiences for medical students. (3) To assess feasibility of student-led action research in a children's hospice to develop research skills.   METHODS Prospective ethical approval received. Volunteer children (n=7), parents (n=5) and staff (n=6) were recruited from a children's hospice. Data were generated in audio-recorded semistructured focus groups, individual interviews and/or activity workshops. Participants discussed what newly qualified doctors' needed to care for children with life-limiting conditions. Audio data were transcribed and combined with visual data for thematic analysis. Findings were refined by participant feedback. This paper presents thematic findings and educational material created from the project.   RESULTS Thematic analysis identified six learning themes: (1) treat children as individuals; (2) act as a person before being a doctor; (3) interpersonal communication; (4) appreciate the clinical environment; (5) learn from children, parents and other staff; (6) how to be a doctor as part of a team. The student researcher successfully developed qualitative research skills, coproducing materials with participants for sharing learning derived from lived experiences.   CONCLUSIONS All participants were willing and able to make valuable contributions, and believed that this was a worthwhile use of time and effort. Further work is required to understand how best to integrate the experiences of children in hospices into medical education.
BACKGROUND A burn prevention and education programme - the Reduction of Burn and Scald Mortality and Morbidity in Children in Malawi project - was implemented from January 2010-2013 in Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital, Malawi. This study aimed to investigate the barriers and facilitators of implementing education-training programmes.   METHODS Semi-structured interviews with 14 Scottish and Malawian staff delivering and receiving teaching at training education programmes were conducted. All interviews were recorded, transcribed and analysed using thematic analysis.   RESULTS Overarching barriers and facilitators were similar for both sets of staff. Scottish participants recognised that limited experience working in LMICs narrowed the challenges they anticipated. Time was a significant barrier to implementation of training courses for both sets of participants. Lack of hands on practical experience was the greatest barrier to implementing the skills learnt for Malawian staff. Sustainability was a significant facilitator to successful implementation of training programmes. Encouraging involvement of Malawian staff in the co-ordination and delivery of teaching enabled those who attend courses to teach others.   CONCLUSIONS A recognition of and response to the barriers and facilitators associated with introducing paediatric burn education training programmes can contribute to the development of sustainable programme implementation in Malawi and other LMICs.
INTRODUCTION The efficiency of postoperative handover of paediatric patients to the children's intensive care unit (CICU) varies according to institutions, clinical setup and workflow. Reorganisation of handover flow based on findings from observational studies has been shown to improve the efficiency of information transfer. This study aimed to evaluate a new handover process based on recipients' perceptions, focusing on completeness and comprehensiveness of verbal communication, and the usability of a situation, background, assessment and recommendation (SBAR) form.   METHODS This was a prospective interventional study conducted in the CICU of KK Women's and Children's Hospital, Singapore. It comprised four phases: (1) evaluation of the current handover process through an audit and opinion survey; (2) development of a new handover process based on the opinion survey and hospital personnel feedback; (3) implementation; and (4) evaluation of the new handover process. The new handover process was based on a PETS (pre-handover, equipment handover, timeout and sign out) protocol with a 'single traffic communication' flow and a new SBAR handover document. It included relevant patient information, and the options 'not applicable' and 'none', to increase compliance and reduce ambiguity.   RESULTS Significantly more recipients indicated that the new SBAR form was the most important handover tool and provided more useful information. Recipients' perceptions indicated improvement in information sufficiency and clarity; reduction of omission errors; and fewer inconsistencies in patient descriptions in the new process.   CONCLUSION Dual customisation of the handover process, PETS protocol and SBAR form is necessary to meet the workflow and information demands of the receiving team.
BACKGROUND Flexible flatfoot, as the most prevalent foot deformity in pediatric population still has no standardized strategy for its management hence some orthopedic surgeons have the tendency to use orthotic devices. The objective of this study is to evaluate whether orthotic shoes effect the natural course of the developing medial longitudinal arch in children diagnosed with moderate flexible flatfoot.   METHODS Fourty-five children (33 boys and 12 girls) with moderate flexible flatfoot were enrolled in this study. They were followed up for 34.6혻짹혻10.9 months (24-57 months). Patients in group 1 were treated with corrective shoes whereas group 2 was left untreated. Patients were evaluated according to; general joint laxity, arch index, lateral talo-first metatarsal (TM), talo-horizontal (TH), calcaneal pitch (CP), lateral and anterior talocalcaneal (TC) angles.   RESULTS Although there was a significant decrease in general laxity in both groups, decrease of laxity percentage was not significant between groups (p혻=혻0.812). TM, TH and anterior TC angles were found to be decreased in groups whereas there was no difference between group 1 and 2. The arch index was found to be correlated with TM and TH angles in both groups (p혻=혻0.004, p혻=혻0.013).   CONCLUSIONS Corrective shoes for flexible flatfoot was found not effective on development of foot arches. Therefore, they should be limited only for selected cases.
In the weeks after birth, postpartum care often is fragmented among maternal and pediatric health care providers, and communication between inpatient and outpatient settings is inconsistent. To optimize postpartum care, anticipatory guidance should begin during pregnancy. During antenatal care, it is recommended that the patient and her obstetrician-gynecologist or other obstetric care provider formulate a postpartum care plan and identify the health care professionals who will comprise the postpartum care team for the woman and her infant. Ideally, during the postpartum period, a single health care practice assumes responsibility for coordinating the woman's care. At discharge from maternity care, the woman should receive contact information for her postpartum care team and written instructions regarding the timing of follow-up postpartum care. It is recommended that all women undergo a comprehensive postpartum visit within the first 6 weeks after birth. This visit should include a full assessment of physical, social, and psychological well-being. Systems should be implemented to ensure each woman can receive her desired form of contraception during the comprehensive postpartum visit, if not done earlier. At the conclusion of the postpartum visit, the woman and her obstetrician-gynecologist or other obstetric care provider should determine who will assume primary responsibility for her ongoing care. If responsibility is transferred to another primary care provider, the obstetrician-gynecologist or other obstetric care provider is responsible for ensuring that there is communication with the primary care provider so that he or she can understand the implications of any pregnancy complications for the woman's future health and maintain continuity of care.
In the weeks after birth, postpartum care often is fragmented among maternal and pediatric health care providers, and communication between inpatient and outpatient settings is inconsistent. To optimize postpartum care, anticipatory guidance should begin during pregnancy. During antenatal care, it is recommended that the patient and her obstetrician-gynecologist or other obstetric care provider formulate a postpartum care plan and identify the health care professionals who will comprise the postpartum care team for the woman and her infant. Ideally, during the postpartum period, a single health care practice assumes responsibility for coordinating the woman's care. At discharge from maternity care, the woman should receive contact information for her postpartum care team and written instructions regarding the timing of follow-up postpartum care. It is recommended that all women undergo a comprehensive postpartum visit within the first 6 weeks after birth. This visit should include a full assessment of physical, social, and psychological well-being. Systems should be implemented to ensure each woman can receive her desired form of contraception during the comprehensive postpartum visit, if not done earlier. At the conclusion of the postpartum visit, the woman and her obstetrician-gynecologist or other obstetric care provider should determine who will assume primary responsibility for her ongoing care. If responsibility is transferred to another primary care provider, the obstetrician-gynecologist or other obstetric care provider is responsible for ensuring that there is communication with the primary care provider so that he or she can understand the implications of any pregnancy complications for the woman's future health and maintain continuity of care.
UNLABELLED Theme: Accreditation and quality improvement.   AIM Dislocated fractures are common in the children's emergency department (ER). All forms of fracture reduction are very painful requiring nitrous oxide. The purpose is to shorten the length of stay in the hospital as well as sustain a high quality of care.   METHODS All nurses received theoretical and practical training in the use of nitrous oxide. Evaluations with the families were made by telephone.   RESULT A total of 40 enclosed fracture reductions were made at the ER, leading to a reduction of 33 patients in the operating department and the length of stay was shortened - this compared to the same time in 2014. No adverse event was reported and no patient felt any increase in pain during the treatment. All patients would repeat the procedure if necessary.   CONCLUSION The treatment has reduced the length of stay in the hospital without affecting the other patients in the ER or the quality of care.
The majority of the documented experience in pediatric trauma care during the past decade of conflict is from the inpatient Role 3 mission. Pediatric patients (defined as 14 years of age or less) accounted for 5% to 10% of combat admissions. Care for these patients was resource intensive and mortality rates significantly higher than those seen in pediatric hospitals in the United States. The largest documented experience to date with explosive injuries and massive transfusions in children were reported from this conflict. Improvements in logistic and personnel support was seen throughout the decade of conflict, however long-term outcomes and clinical practice guidelines to direct future care for these children are lacking.
STUDY OBJECTIVE To determine if the North American Society for Pediatric and Adolescent Gynecology (NASPAG) Short Curriculum improves self-reported knowledge in pediatric and adolescent gynecology (PAG) among obstetrics and gynecology (Ob/Gyn) residents, at programs without PAG-trained faculty.   DESIGN Prospective, cross-sectional exposure to the NASPAG short curriculum with a follow-up questionnaire.   SETTING Ob/Gyn residency training programs without PAG faculty.   PARTICIPANTS Ob/Gyn residents in training from February 2015 to June혻2015.   INTERVENTIONS Exposure to the NASPAG Short Curriculum.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Improvement in self-perceived knowledge after completion of curriculum.   RESULTS Two hundred twenty-seven residents met inclusion criteria; 34 completed the study (15% response). Less than 50% of residents reported adequate knowledge in the areas of prepubertal vaginal bleeding, vulvovaginitis, precocious and delayed puberty, Home environment, Education and Employment, Eating, peer-related Activities, Drugs, Sexuality, Suicide/depression, Safety from injury and violence (HEEADSSS)혻interview, pelvic pain, and bleeding management in teens with developmental delay. After completion of the curriculum, self-reported knowledge improved in 8 of 10 learning objectives, with no significant improvement in bleeding disorders or M체llerian anomalies. There was no association between pretest knowledge and level of residency training, type of residency program, previous exposure to PAG lectures, and previous exposure to patients with PAG complaints.   CONCLUSION Significant deficiencies exist regarding self-reported knowledge of core PAG topics among Ob/Gyn residents at programs without PAG-trained faculty. Use of the NASPAG Short Curriculum by residents without access to PAG-trained faculty resulted in improved self-reported knowledge in PAG.
Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are chronic intestinal inflammatory disorders characterized by a complex disruption of the physiologic interaction between the host immune system and intestinal microbes precipitated by environmental factors. Numerous observations indicate the altered composition and function of the intestinal microbiome of patients with ulcerative colitis (UC), a subtype of IBD. The accuracy of these results may be limited by confounding factors, such as concurrent medication use. To address these limitations, we examined the colonic mucosal microbiome of pediatric patients with UC prior to initiating treatment. Based on bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequencing, we identified a significant decrease in the phylum Verrucomicrobia in patients with UC. At the genus level, we observed a significant decrease in the short chain fatty acid producer Roseburia. Despite these compositional changes, we did not identify inferred gene content differences between the UC and control groups. To determine if microbial taxa may be associated with clinical outcomes, we retrospectively assessed the clinical course of the UC patients. Despite similar metrics of OTU richness and diversity, multiple OTU differences were observed between patients who responded to therapy and those who did not. Our observations regarding the mucosal microbiome and the associations with differential clinical outcomes support the contributions of gut microbes to disease onset and modulation.
This study explored parents' perspectives regarding their involvement in safety for their hospitalized children. We employed qualitative description and semistructured interviews of parents of children in an urban tertiary hospital ward. Content analysis revealed 4 parent themes: risks to child safety and comfort, hospital role as a protector, participation in safety varies by individual and organizational factors, and balancing safety with 'speaking up' interpersonal risks. We suggest key concepts to incorporate into staff education and family engagement/safety programs to develop effective partnerships between clinicians and parents.
OBJECTIVES To assess the performance of two pediatric length-based tapes (Broselow and Handtevy) in predicting actual weights of US children.   METHODS In this descriptive study, weights and lengths of children (newborn through 13 years of age) were extracted from the 2009-2010 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES). Using the measured length ranges for each tape and the NHANES-extracted length data, every case from the study sample was coded into Broselow and Handtevy zones. Mean weights were calculated for each zone and compared to the predicted Broselow and Handtevy weights using measures of bias, precision, and accuracy. A sub-sample was examined that excluded cases with body mass index (BMI)95th percentile. Weights of children longer than each tape also were examined.   RESULTS A total of 3,018 cases from the NHANES database met criteria. Although both tapes underestimated children's weight, the Broselow tape outperformed the Handtevy tape across most length ranges in measures of bias, precision, and accuracy of predicted weights relative to actual weights. Accuracy was higher in the Broselow tape for shorter children and in the Handtevy tape for taller children. Among the sub-sample with cases of BMI95th percentile removed, performance of the Handtevy tape improved, yet the Broselow tape still performed better. When assessing the weights of children who were longer than either tape, the actual mean weights did not approximate adult weights; although, those exceeding the Handtevy tape were closer.   CONCLUSIONS For pediatric weight estimation, the Broselow tape performed better overall than the Handtevy tape and more closely approximated actual weight. Lowe CG , Campwala RT , Ziv N , Wang VJ . The Broselow and Handtevy resuscitation tapes: a comparison of the performance of pediatric weight prediction. Prehosp Disaster Med. 2016;31(4):364-375.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE Efforts to advance patient safety have been hampered by the lack of high quality measures of adverse events (AEs). This study's objective was to develop and test the Global Assessment of Pediatric Patient Safety (GAPPS) trigger tool, which measures hospital-wide rates of AEs and preventable AEs.   METHODS Through a literature review and expert panel process, we developed a draft trigger tool. Tool performance was tested in 16 academic and community hospitals across the United States. At each site, a primary reviewer (nurse) reviewed 240 randomly selected medical records; 10% of records underwent an additional primary review. Suspected AEs were subsequently evaluated by 2 secondary reviewers (physicians). Ten percent of records were also reviewed by external expert reviewers. Each trigger's incidence and positivity rates were assessed to refine GAPPS.   RESULTS In total, 3814 medical records were reviewed. Primary reviewers agreed 92% of the time on presence or absence of a suspected AE (觀 = 0.69). Secondary reviewers verifying AE presence or absence agreed 92% of the time (觀 = 0.81). Using expert reviews as a standard for comparison, hospital-based primary reviewers had a sensitivity and specificity of 40% and 91%, respectively. As primary reviewers gained experience, their agreement with expert reviewers improved significantly. After removing low-yield triggers, 27 and 30 (of 54) triggers met inclusion criteria to form final manual and automated trigger lists, respectively.   CONCLUSIONS GAPPS reliably identifies AEs and can be used to guide and monitor quality improvement efforts. Ongoing refinement may facilitate future interhospital comparisons.
PURPOSE To assess the impact of the transition from traditional paper-based medical records to electronic medical records in a pediatric ophthalmology practice at a tertiary care center.   METHODS A prospective, cross-sectional survey was completed at three time points: 2 weeks prior to (phase 1), 2 weeks after (phase 2), and 3 months after (phase 3) the electronic medical record transition. The survey consisted of 10 Likert-type scaled questions assessing patient satisfaction and two free response questions estimating the wait time, which was completed by patients or parents/guardians whose child/children (younger than 18 years) had an appointment in the pediatric ophthalmology and strabismus clinic. Satisfaction scores and waiting times were compared within each phase and across phases and between different appointment types.   RESULTS A total of 382 surveys were collected: 158 from phase 1, 68 from phase 2, and 156 from phase 3. Overall, patient satisfaction was high at all three time points. Patients' estimates of waiting time compared to actual waiting time were not significantly different at any phase; however, patients' estimates of time spent with the physician were significantly underestimated in phase 1 (20 vs 25 minutes, P = .04) and were correct or overestimated in phase 3.   CONCLUSIONS Patients were satisfied with the service regardless of the use of paper charts or electronic medical records. The electronic medical record system does not seem to improve patients' waiting time, but has a significant impact on the perception of time spent with the physician. [J Pediatr Ophthalmol Strabismus. 2016;53(3):173-178.].
INTRODUCTION Sixty million people were displaced from their homes due to conflict, persecution, or human rights violations at the end of 2014. This vulnerable population bears a disproportionate burden of disease, much of which is surgically treatable. We sought to estimate the surgical needs for forcibly displaced persons globally to inform humanitarian assistance initiatives.   METHODS Data regarding forcibly displaced persons, including refugees, internally displaced persons (IDPs), and asylum seekers were extracted from United Nations databases. Using the minimum proposed surgical rate of 4669 procedures per 100,000 persons annually, global, regional, and country-specific estimates were calculated. The prevalence of pregnancy and obstetric complications were used to estimate obstetric surgical needs.   RESULTS At least 2.78 million surgical procedures (IQR 2.58-3.15 million) were needed for 59.5 million displaced persons. Of these, 1.06 million procedures were required in North Africa and the Middle East, representing an increase of 50혻% from current unmet surgical need in the region. Host countries with the highest surgical burden for the displaced included Syria (388,000 procedures), Colombia (282,000 procedures), and Iraq (187,000). Between 4 and 10혻% of required procedures were obstetric surgical procedures. Children aged <18혻years made up 52혻% of the displaced, portending a substantial demand for pediatric surgical care.   CONCLUSION Approximately three million procedures annually are required to meet the surgical needs of refugees, IDPs, and asylum seekers. Most displaced persons are hosted in countries with inadequate surgical care capacity. These figures should be considered when planning humanitarian assistance and targeted surgical capacity improvements.
Data from the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey, 2012 줡hysician office visit rates for well care were lower for school-aged (those aged 6-11 years) children (31 per 100 population) and adolescents aged 12-17 years (29 per 100 population) than for younger children (349 and 74 per 100 population for children under age 1 year and 1-5 years, respectively). 줧isit rates for well and problem-focused care were highest for general pediatricians (59 and 173 per 100 population) compared with other primary (7 and 25 per 100 population) and specialty care providers (1 and 24 per 100 population) across all age groups. 줐mong school-aged and adolescent children, a higher percentage of well-care visits had recommended height, weight, and blood pressure measurements recorded, compared with visits for problem-focused care.
Knowledge about sequence properties is essential to plan and acquire a diagnostic MRI examination. The broad four categories of sequences include spin echo (SE), gradient echo (GRE), inversion recovery (IR) and echoplanar imaging (EPI). Varieties of sequences from these four categories are available for clinical application. They have different contrast mechanisms, spatial and contrast resolution and speed of acquisition. Choice of sequence differs in various scenarios in clinical practice such as solid organ imaging, moving target imaging, bone and bone marrow imaging, cartilage imaging and vessel imaging, taking into consideration properties of sequences to answer the clinical question. Broad classification of sequences and differences in their contrast, spatial and contrast resolution, and speed of acquisition are discussed in this review. A few common clinical scenarios of MRI imaging are illustrated, along with reasons for the given sequence choices.
Vascular pathology is ubiquitous in children. Common indications for angiographic imaging in the body include congenital anomalies, portal hypertension, assessing resectability of neoplasms, renovascular hypertension, vascular malformations, vasculitis, systemic vein thrombosis, and trauma. MR angiography, with or without the use of intravenous contrast agents, is therefore a mainstay in the repertoire of MR imaging in children. Pediatric contrast-enhanced MR angiography has benefited from several innovations in recent years, including improved hardware options like high-field-strength scanners and integrated high-density coil arrays, new sequences that combine parallel imaging, innovative k-space sampling and Dixon fat suppression with time-resolved imaging, new contrast agents with longer blood-pool residence time, and advanced post-processing solutions like image fusion. This article focuses on the principles of contrast-enhanced MR angiography of the body as it pertains to the physiologies and pathologies encountered in children. It also discusses tools to adapt the MR angiographic technique to the clinical indication, as well as pitfalls of post-processing and interpretation in commonly encountered vascular imaging scenarios in the pediatric body.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) plays an important role in the imaging of children with non-central nervous system malignancies, and it is increasingly replacing or complementing CT in many cases. MRI has several advantages over CT, including superior contrast resolution as well as superior tissue characterization with the use of novel pulse sequences and functional or organ-specific contrast agents. In addition, the lack of ionizing radiation - an important consideration in children - allows for multiphase dynamic post-contrast imaging, which can be useful for lesion detection and characterization. Several challenges remain in the performance of MRI in pediatric oncology patients, including the frequent need for sedation or anesthesia in young children because of long imaging times, as well as the suboptimal imaging of the lungs in the evaluation for pulmonary metastatic disease. However, despite these challenges, with continued improvements in MRI image quality and the development of novel sequences, contrast agents and quantitative imaging techniques, MRI is expected to play an ever increasing role in the imaging of pediatric oncology patients.
Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging can be used in the management of pediatric soft-tissue vascular anomalies for diagnosing and assessing extent of lesions and for evaluating response to therapy. MR imaging studies often involve a combination of T1- and T2-weighted images in addition to MR angiography and fat-suppressed post-contrast sequences. The MR imaging features of these vascular anomalies when combined with clinical findings can aid in diagnosis. In cases of complex vascular malformations and syndromes associated with vascular anomalies, MR imaging can be used to evaluate accompanying soft-tissue and bone anomalies. This article reviews the MR imaging protocols and appearances of the most common pediatric soft-tissue vascular anomalies.
BACKGROUND Ultrasound (US) can be used to improve lumbar puncture (LP) success. How to achieve competency in LP US has not been defined. Cumulative sum statistics (CUSUM) characterized competency acquisition in other skills.   OBJECTIVES Identify the learning curve for 80% success rate in LP US insertion site (IS) identification among pediatric emergency medicine fellows.   METHODS This prospective study took place in a single pediatric emergency department. Fellows with limited ultrasound experience received didactics, training, and three proctored examinations. Skills were evaluated in three 2-h sessions: using US, subjects identified LP ISs on a convenience sample of patients ages 0-20혻years old. Subjects' IS markings were compared to markings by an expert, an emergency US fellowship-trained attending. Successful IS identification was defined as markings within 2혻mm or 5혻mm of the expert mark in infants and older children, respectively. A second expert marked 17 cases for interrater agreement. CUSUM was used to analyze individual learning curves.   RESULTS Five fellows evaluated 72 patients (mean age 11.4혻years [SD혻=혻4, range 3-20], mean body mass index 20.5 [SD혻=혻4.4, range 13.1-37.7]) over a 3-month period. Mean number of attempts per fellow was 14.4혻짹혻3.1 (R 11-19); mean time to landmark identification was 72혻짹혻46혻s혻(R 27-240). The two experts demonstrated 100% observed agreement. Aggregate success rate for all fellows was 75% (54/72). Four fellows showed learning curves that trended toward, but did not achieve, the acceptable success rate of 80%.   CONCLUSIONS Nineteen attempts are insufficient among fellows to achieve competency in US-guided LP IS identification.
BACKGROUND Correct positioning of the endotracheal tube (ETT) during emergent pediatric intubations can be challenging, and incorrect placement may be associated with higher rates of complications.   OBJECTIVES The aims of this study are to: 1) assess the prevalence of clinically undetected misplaced ETTs after intubation in the pediatric emergency department; 2) identify predictors of ETT misplacement; and 3) evaluate for any association between intubation-related complications and ETT position.   METHODS In this retrospective cross-sectional study, the primary outcome was rate of unrecognized low or high ETTs detected on confirmatory chest radiographs. The secondary outcome was frequency of complications (i.e., hypoxemia, difficult ventilation, atelectasis, pneumothorax, pneumomediastinum, and aspiration) associated with misplaced ETTs. Multivariable analyses were used to evaluate the associations between patient and procedural characteristics and misplaced ETTs and between ETT position and complications.   RESULTS Seventy-seven of 201 (38.3%) intubations performed in the emergency department resulted in clinically unrecognized misplaced ETTs. Of the misplaced tubes, 45 of 77 (58%) were identified as low and 32 (42%) were high. In multivariable analyses, female sex and decreasing age were associated with increased risk of low tube placement (odds ratio for female sex, 2.4 [95% confidence interval, 1.1-5.1]; odds ratio of decreasing age, 1.16 [95% confidence interval, 1.0-1.3]). Low tube misplacement was associated with an increased risk of intubation-related complications compared to both correct and high tube placement (p혻<혻0.05, Chi-square).   CONCLUSION Clinically unrecognized ETT misplacement occurs frequently in the pediatric emergency department, with low placement being most common, particularly in girls and younger children. Measures to improve clinical or radiographic recognition of incorrect tube position should be considered.
Since the fundamental principles of the medical profession were clearly defined in a physician charter in 2002, special considerations have been expressed about the adequate distribution of health care resources taking in account the individual patient needs to optimize the health care service. The correct application of procedures represents a key point in order to reach the appropriateness of care, that means to avoid unnecessary or inappropriate procedures as well as the underutilization of the necessary procedures. In this context, the Choosing wisely campaign have been widely used and disclosed and even the Italian Society of Pediatric Allergology and Immunology - SIAIP has been working to make recommendations in order to ensure the appropriateness of care in the field of allergy and optimize the use of health care resources.
The history of pediatric plastic surgery is linked to that of paediatrics. Until the early 19th혻century, there was no children's hospital. Only some operations were performed before the discovery of anesthesia, aseptic and antisepsis: cleft lip repair, amputation for polydactyly. Many operations were described in the 19th혻century for cleft lip and palate repair, hypospadias, syndactylies. The first operation for protruding ears was performed in 1881. Pediatric plastic surgery is diversified in the 2nd혻half of the 20th혻century: cleft lip and palate, burns, craniofacial surgery, hand surgery become separate parts of the speciality.
OBJECTIVE Corpus callosotomy is a palliative neurosurgical treatment for patients with either generalized or multifocal refractory epilepsy and injurious drop attacks. This report aims to systematically review the pediatric literature.   METHODS Medline, Embase, Web of Knowledge, and Scopus were searched systematically for published articles on treatment outcomes of corpus callosotomy for refractory epilepsy. Studies were included if the patient population was younger than 18 at the time of surgery and median follow-up was >1혻year. Studies were excluded if resective surgery was also performed.   RESULTS A total of 12 articles met inclusion criteria. All articles were retrospective case series, with the exception of one being a prospectively designed retrospective case series. There was very little agreement among authors on the definition of a good seizure outcome. Articles that used the Engel classification found that 88.2% of total corpus callosotomy patients had a worthwhile reduction in seizures compared with 58.6% of patients who underwent anterior corpus callosotomy (p혻<혻0.05). Drop attacks improved from corpus callosotomy more than other generalized seizure types. Reported complications were minor in all but one patient, and one death was reported. Transient disconnection syndrome was significantly more likely in total corpus callosotomy than in anterior corpus callosotomy (12.5% vs. 0%; p혻<혻0.05). Improvements in quality of life, behavior, and intelligence/development quotient, as well as parental satisfaction, were generally correlated with seizure outcome. There was no postcallosotomy change in the number of antiepileptic drugs.   SIGNIFICANCE Total corpus callosotomy was significantly more likely to result in a reduction in seizures. Anterior corpus callosotomy was unlikely to result in disconnection syndrome. Although all of the papers drew a similar conclusion, the quality of evidence was low. At best, the evidence raises the hypothesis that corpus callosotomy is a safe and effective treatment for refractory generalized epilepsy. It is clear that a case-control or randomized trial is warranted.
BACKGROUND The reimbursement of the hexavalent vaccine (Infanrix hexa), comprising the DTPa-IPV-Hib components and the hepatitis B recombinant in a single vaccine, was approved in France in March of 2008. The impact of its reimbursement on physicians' decisions to vaccinate infants against hepatitis B was assessed in a study conducted with general practitioners and pediatricians.   METHODS The PRALINE study (NCT01777074) was a national, cross-sectional, repeated study with two measurement periods (T1 and T2) that measured the changes in physicians' acceptance of hepatitis B vaccination of infants before and for the 3 years after the approval of the hexavalent vaccine reimbursement. Two patient registers were created for each measurement period to enroll the first 15 12- to 15-month-old infants and the first 15 24- to 27-month-old children seen by the practitioners. The proportion of eligible children receiving a hepatitis B vaccine for each physician's practice was calculated. Practitioners also answered a vaccination practice questionnaire via telephone interviews.   RESULTS Across the two study periods, 418 general practitioners and 463 pediatricians were recruited and responded to the telephone interview on their vaccination practices. The overall number of children included in the study in both study periods reached almost 20,000. In the general practitioners group, there was a significant increase in the proportion of physicians 'practicing hepatitis B vaccination' (i.e., at least 50% of eligible children receiving the initial hepatitis B vaccination) in children 24-27 months old (79% T2 versus 47% T1, P-value [P]<0.001). Similarly, the proportion of pediatricians initiating hepatitis B vaccination increased from 51% (T1) to 94% (T2) (P<0.0001). General practitioners offered hepatitis B vaccination to infants more systematically in the second study period (87% T2 versus 73% T1, P<0.001) and also suggested the use of the hexavalent vaccine to more patients after reimbursement (92% T2 versus 78% T1, P<0.0001). The proportion of pediatricians offering vaccination to every infant was high at T1 (94%) and remained steady (97%) with a high use of the hexavalent vaccine (94% T1 and 96% T2).   CONCLUSION The PRALINE study shows a significant and immediate change in the hepatitis B vaccination practices of general practitioners and pediatricians following hexavalent vaccine reimbursement with a significant increase in hepatitis B vaccine coverage in infants.
We describe 4 pediatric patients (age 6-11 years) who underwent transcanal endoscopic ear surgery (TEES) with the assistance of a flexible fiber CO2 laser over a period of 6 months. Three of these individuals suffered from densely adherent cholesteatoma, where the laser permitted one-handed dissection while preserving endoscopic visualization by limiting bleeding. In the fourth patient, TEES ossiculoplasty was performed for a congenital stapes bar, with subsequent hearing improvement. Advantages and disadvantages of the flexible fiber CO2 laser in the setting of TEES are discussed. Use of the flexible fiber CO2 laser was found to expand the TEES toolkit.
A new class of gene mutations, identified in the pathogenesis of adult acute myeloid leukemia (AML), includes DNMT3A, IDH1/2, TET2 and EZH2. However, these mutations are rare in pediatric AML cases, indicating that pathogeneses differ between adult and pediatric forms of AML. Meanwhile, the recent development of massively parallel sequencing technologies has provided a new opportunity to discover genetic changes across entire genomes or proteincoding sequences. In order to reveal a complete registry of gene mutations, we performed whole exome resequencing of paired tumor-normal specimens from 19 pediatric AML cases using Illumina HiSeq 2000. In total, 80 somatic mutations or 4.2 mutations per sample were identified. Many of the recurrent mutations identified in this study involved previously reported targets in AML, such as FLT3, CEBPA, KIT, CBL, NRAS, WT1 and EZH2. On the other hand, several genes were newly identified in the current study, including BCORL1 and major cohesin components such as SMC3 and RAD21. Whole exome resequencing revealed a complex array of gene mutations in pediatric AML genomes. Our results indicate that a subset of pediatric AML represents a discrete entity that could be discriminated from its adult counterpart, in terms of the spectrum of gene mutations.
Early warning scores are frequently used in UK adult emergency departments (EDs) and are gaining traction in paediatric emergency care. Like many innovations with inherent face validity, they have great appeal to clinicians, managers and commissioners. However, it is important to ensure unintended consequences and balancing measures are mitigated. We review the background to their development and introduction in the ED, the evidence for their usefulness, their limitations in our field and areas for further research.
BACKGROUND We describe the collaborative development of an evidence based, free online resource namely 'paediatric musculoskeletal matters' (pmm). This resource was developed with the aim of reaching a wide range of health professionals to increase awareness, knowledge and skills within paediatric musculoskeletal medicine, thereby facilitating early diagnosis and referral to specialist care.   METHODS Engagement with stakeholder groups (primary care, paediatrics, musculoskeletal specialties and medical students) informed the essential 'core' learning outcomes to derive content of pmm. Representatives from stakeholder groups, social science and web development experts transformed the learning outcomes into a suitable framework. Target audience representatives reviewed the framework and their opinion was gathered using an online survey (n=74) and focus groups (n=2). Experts in paediatric musculoskeletal medicine peer reviewed the content and design.   RESULTS User preferences informed design with mobile, tablet and web compatible versions to facilitate access, various media and formats to engage users and the content presented in module format (i.e. Clinical assessment, Investigations and management, Limping child, Joint pain by site, Swollen joint(s) and Resources).   CONCLUSIONS We propose that our collaborative and evidence-based approach has ensured that pmm is user-friendly, with readily accessible, suitable content, and will help to improve access to paediatric musculoskeletal medicine education. The content is evidence-based with the design and functionality of pmm to facilitate optimal and 'real life' access to information. pmm is targeted at medical students and the primary care environment although messages are transferable to all health care professionals involved in the care of children and young people.
OBJECTIVES Arachnoid cysts are abnormal intracranial fluid collections, and there is concern that these cysts may bleed or rupture following blunt head trauma. Our objective was to determine the risk of cyst-related complications in a cohort of children with arachnoid cysts who were evaluated for head trauma.   METHODS We analyzed the Pediatric Emergency Care Applied Research Network (PECARN) head trauma public use data set, which was the product of a study that enrolled children with blunt head trauma from June 2004 to September 2006. We identified children with arachnoid cysts on cranial computed tomography (CT) and described the patient demographics, mechanisms of injury, clinical presentations, CT evidence of traumatic brain injury (TBI), and clinical outcomes. Clinically important TBI was defined as TBI leading to: 1) death from TBI, 2) neurosurgical intervention, 3) intubation for > 24 hours for the TBI, or 4) hospitalization for 2 or more nights for the head injury in association with TBI on CT.   RESULTS Data were available for 43,399 children who sustained blunt head trauma, of whom 15,899 had cranial CT scans obtained and 68 (0.4%) had arachnoid cysts. Falls were the most common mechanisms of injury (47%) and 87% of children had either moderate or severe injury mechanisms. Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) scores ranged from 6 to 15, with 61 (90%) having GCS scores of 15. Two of the children with arachnoid cysts had TBIs on CT, one of which was clinically important. There were no identified cases of arachnoid cyst-related bleeding or complications.   CONCLUSIONS In this cohort of 68 children with arachnoid cysts who sustained head trauma, none demonstrated cyst-related bleeding or complications. This suggests the risk of arachnoid cyst-related complications in children following blunt head trauma is low and evaluation should align with existing clinical decision rules.
OBJECTIVE There is growing consensus that to ensure that health care dollars are spent efficiently, physicians need more training in how to provide high-value, cost-conscious care. Thus, in fiscal year 2014, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia piloted a 9-part curriculum on health care costs and value for faculty in the Division of General Pediatrics. This study uses baseline and postintervention surveys to gauge knowledge, perceptions, and views on these issues and to assess the efficacy of the pilot curriculum.   METHODS Faculty completed surveys about their knowledge and perceptions about health care costs and value and their views on the role physicians should play in containing costs and promoting value. Baseline and postintervention responses were compared and analyzed on the basis of how many of the sessions respondents attended.   RESULTS Sixty-two faculty members completed the baseline survey (71% response rate), and 45 faculty members completed the postintervention survey (63% response rate). Reported knowledge of health care costs and value increased significantly in the postintervention survey (P=.04 and P<.001). Odds of being knowledgeable about costs and value were 2.42 (confidence interval: 1.05-5.58) and 6.22 times greater (confidence interval: 2.29-16.90), respectively, postintervention. Reported knowledge of health care costs and value increased with number of sessions attended (P=.01 and P<.001).   CONCLUSIONS The pilot curriculum appeared to successfully introduce physicians to concepts around health care costs and value and initiated important discussions about the role physicians can play in containing costs and promoting value. Additional education, increased cost transparency, and more decision support tools are needed to help physicians translate knowledge into practice.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES Because physicians' practices could be modified to reduce missed opportunities for human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination, our goal was to: (1) describe self-reported practices regarding recommending the HPV vaccine; (2) estimate the frequency of parental deferral of HPV vaccination; and (3)identify characteristics associated with not discussing it.   METHODS A national survey among pediatricians and family physicians (FP) was conducted between October 2013 and January 2014. Using multivariable analysis, characteristics associated with not discussing HPV vaccination were examined.   RESULTS Response rates were 82% for pediatricians (364 of 442) and 56% for FP (218 of 387). For 11-12 year-old girls, 60% of pediatricians and 59% of FP strongly recommend HPV vaccine; for boys,52% and 41% ostrongly recommen. More than one-half reported 25% of parents deferred HPV vaccination. At the 11-12 year well visit, 84% of pediatricians and 75% of FP frequently/always discuss HPV vaccination. Compared with physicians who frequently/always discuss , those who occasionally/rarely discuss(18%) were more likely to be FP (adjusted odds ratio [aOR]: 2.0 [95% confidence interval (CI): 1.1-3.5), be male (aOR: 1.8 [95% CI: 1.1-3.1]), disagree that parents will accept HPV vaccine if discussed with other vaccines (aOR: 2.3 [95% CI: 1.3-4.2]), report that 25% to 49% (aOR: 2.8 [95% CI: 1.1-6.8]) or 50% (aOR: 7.8 [95% CI: 3.4-17.6]) of parents defer, and express concern about waning immunity (aOR: 3.4 [95% CI: 1.8-6.4]).   CONCLUSIONS Addressing physicians' perceptions about parental acceptance of HPV vaccine, the possible advantages of discussing HPV vaccination with other recommended vaccines, and concerns about waning immunity could lead to increased vaccination rates.
OBJECTIVE To study reconstitution and preparation dosing errors of liquid oral medications given by caregivers to children.   METHODS A prospective observational study was carried out in the departments of general paediatrics and emergency paediatrics at the Robert-Debr챕 Children's University Hospital. An interview with caregivers involved (1) practical reconstitution and preparation of an oral liquid medication from a prescription drawn at random (amoxicillin (Clamoxyl, dosing spoon) or josamycin (Josacine, dose-weight pipette)) and (2) a questionnaire about their use.   RESULTS One hundred caregivers were included. Clamoxyl and Josacine were incorrectly reconstituted in 46% (23/50) and 56% (28/50) of cases, respectively, with a risk of underdosing of Clamoxyl (16/23) and overdosing of Josacine (23/28). Dose preparation with the dosing spoon was incorrect in 56% of cases, and in 10% of cases with the dose-weight pipette. Female sex, native French speaker, and age were significantly associated with correct reconstitution. Male sex and medication were significantly associated with correct preparation.   CONCLUSIONS This study highlights the high incidence of errors made by caregivers in reconstituting and preparing doses of these liquid oral medicines, which are associated with considerable risks of over- and underdosing. Factors associated with these errors have been identified which could help health professionals to optimise their strategy for educating families about the use of liquid oral medications and the need to check that they understand these instructions.
Although the new guidance may appear daunting, health professionals should be reassured that it intends to support and strengthen their professional practice and create a more open culture to improve transparency and patient care
PURPOSE To report on the development of content and user feedback regarding the assessment process and utility of the workplace-based assessment instruments of the Pediatrics Milestones Assessment Pilot (PMAP).   METHOD One multisource feedback instrument and two structured clinical observation instruments were developed and refined by experts in pediatrics and assessment to provide evidence for nine competencies based on the Pediatrics Milestones (PMs) and chosen to inform residency program faculty decisions about learners' readiness to serve as pediatric interns in the inpatient setting. During the 2012-2013 PMAP study, 18 U.S. pediatric residency programs enrolled interns and subinterns. Faculty, residents, nurses, and other observers used the instruments to assess learner performance through direct observation during a one-month rotation. At the end of the rotation, data were aggregated for each learner, milestone levels were assigned using a milestone classification form, and feedback was provided to learners. Learners and site leads were surveyed and/or interviewed about their experience as participants.   RESULTS Across the sites, 2,338 instruments assessing 239 learners were completed by 630 unique observers. Regarding end-of-rotation feedback, 93% of learners (128/137) agreed the assessments and feedback 'helped me understand how those with whom I work perceive my performance,' and 85% (117/137) agreed they were 'useful for constructing future goals or identifying a developmental path.' Site leads identified several benefits and challenges to the assessment process.   CONCLUSIONS PM-based instruments used in workplace-based assessment provide a meaningful and acceptable approach to collecting evidence of learner competency development. Learners valued feedback provided by PM-based assessment.
Home-based monitoring might be useful to reduce the burden of long-lasting oncological treatment for children. Current telemonitoring applications focus on chronic diseases or elderly people. Based on the workflow for different stakeholders and the identification of parameters important in paediatric oncology, we developed a prototype of a smartphone-based telehealth system using Near Field Communication technology for monitoring paediatric neuroblastoma patients at home. The parameters blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, body weight, C-reactive protein, white blood cell count, wellbeing, pain level, nausea level and skin alterations could be monitored using a smartphone, a designated app, point-of-care measurement devices and a smart-poster containing RFID tags. The system has been designed to increase the quality of life for paediatric cancer patients. As a future step, a clinical trial is currently being planned to evaluate the system in clinical setting.
An outline of the minimum core competencies expected from a certified pediatric doctor of chiropractic was developed using a Delphi consensus process. The initial set of seed statements and substatements was modeled on competency documents used by organizations that oversee chiropractic and medical education. These statements were distributed to the Delphi panel, reaching consensus when 80% of the panelists approved each segment. The panel consisted of 23 specialists in chiropractic pediatrics (14 females) from across the broad spectrum of the chiropractic profession. Sixty-one percent of panelists had postgraduate pediatric certifications or degrees, 39% had additional graduate degrees, and 74% were faculty at a chiropractic institution and/or in a postgraduate pediatrics program. The panel were initially given 10 statements with related substatements formulated by the study's steering committee. On all 3 rounds of the Delphi process the panelists reached consensus; however, multiple rounds occurred to incorporate the valuable qualitative feedback received.
PURPOSE We used pediatric and adult anthropomorphic phantoms to compare the radiation dose of low- and standard tube voltage chest and abdominal non-contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) scans. We also discuss the optimal low tube voltage for non-contrast-enhanced CT.   METHODS Using a female adult- and three differently-sized pediatric anthropomorphic phantoms we acquired chest and abdominal non-contrast-enhanced scans on a 320-multidetector CT volume scanner. The tube voltage was set at 80-, 100-, and 120뎚Vp. The tube current was automatically assigned on the CT scanner in response to the set image noise level. On each phantom and at each tube voltage we measured the surface and center dose using high-sensitivity metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistor detectors.   RESULTS The mean surface dose of chest and abdominal CT scans in 5-year olds was 4.4 and 5.3뎜Gy at 80뎚Vp, 4.5 and 5.4뎜Gy at 100뎚V, and 4.0 and 5.0뎜Gy at 120뎚Vp, respectively. These values were similar in our 3-pediatric phantoms (p>0.05). The mean surface dose in the adult phantom increased from 14.7 to 19.4뎜Gy for chest- and from 18.7 to 24.8뎜Gy for abdominal CT as the tube voltage decreased from 120 to 80뎚Vp (p<0.01).   CONCLUSION Compared to adults, the surface and center dose for pediatric patients is almost the same despite a decrease in the tube voltage and the low tube voltage technique can be used for non-contrast-enhanced chest- and abdominal scanning.
OBJECTIVE This report examined limitations in our ability to assess clinically significant change (CSC) in randomized controlled trials of treatments of self-reported pediatric chronic pain intensity.   METHODS The following were reviewed: (a) approaches to assessing CSC; (b) approaches to assessing CSC used in psychological treatment studies of self-reported pediatric chronic pain intensity included in a recent systematic review; (c) the role of test-retest reliability in distribution-based CSC measures; (d) the test-retest reliability of recommended chronic pain measures.   RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS Existing studies do not assess whether a CSC occurred or use procedures that did not account for measurement error and true score fluctuations unrelated to treatment, possibly resulting in overestimating CSCs. Distribution-based approaches to assessing CSCs that address these problems require knowing test-retest reliability of the chronic pain measure at appropriate intervals. Available information raises concern about our ability to estimate CSC reliably. Recommendations are made for future research.
OBJECTIVES To pilot-test a mixed methods approach to evaluate tools and resources (TRs) that healthcare providers (HCPs) use for preventing childhood obesity in primary care, and report a preliminary descriptive assessment of commonly-used TRs.   METHODS This mixed methods study included individual, semi-structured interviews with purposefully-sampled HCPs in Alberta, Canada; interviews were digitally recorded and analyzed thematically (phase I). Two independent reviewers used three assessment checklists to evaluate commonly-used TRs (phase II). HCPs provided feedback on our coding scheme and checklist data (phase III).   RESULTS Three themes described how HCPs (n=19) used TRs: purpose of use (e.g., clinical support), logistical factors (e.g., accessibility), and decision to use (e.g., suitability). The latter theme overlapped with constructs of suitability on the checklists. Overall, participants used 15 TRs, most of which scored 'average' on the checklists.   CONCLUSION Phases I and II provided unique insights on the evaluation of TRs used for preventing childhood obesity. Criteria on the checklists overlapped with HCPs' perceptions of TR suitability, but did not reflect logistical factors that influenced their use of TRs.   PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS Developers of TRs should collaborate with HCPs to ensure that subjective and objective criteria are used to optimize TR suitability in the primary care setting.
The Screening, Brief Intervention and Referral to Treatment (SBIRT) model is widely recommended as part of routine visits in pediatric primary care despite a dearth of evidence on its effectiveness, feasibility, and developmental appropriateness for adolescents in this setting. The purpose of this article is to explicate ways that SBIRT may be tailored to better serve adolescents in primary care under a set of recommended adaptations that we refer to collectively as SBIRT-A or Screening, Brief Intervention, and Referral to Treatment for Adolescents. Each component of the SBIRT-A framework incorporates recommendations to optimize developmental fit with adolescents based on extant empirical research, developmental theory, and well-documented barriers to service delivery in primary care. Commonalities across proposed adaptations include reliance upon proactive methods to identify and engage youth; innovation in service delivery aimed at improving the consistency and reach of interventions; and a family-focused approach to engagement, assessment, and intervention. Specific recommendations include taking advantage of every clinical encounter with the family to screen, involving caregivers in assessments and brief interventions, leveraging technology to administer brief interventions and booster sessions, and patient- and family-centered procedures for treatment referral and engagement. The adaptations proposed in this article have the potential to enhance the detection of adolescents with SU problems in primary care, the consistency of intervention provision, and engagement of this typically recalcitrant population into appropriate treatment.
Uneven adherence to immunization guidelines might leave some communities vulnerable to outbreaks of vaccine-preventable diseases. To examine factors related to implementation of immunization delivery best practices, we analyzed responses to monthly surveys and debriefing interviews from 16 diverse pediatric practices engaged in a year-long virtual learning collaborative. The collaborative provided a toolkit, online learning sessions, performance feedback, and conference calls with a quality improvement coach. Participants used iterative plan-do-study-act cycles to implement self-selected changes in immunization practices. Descriptive statistics were applied to quantitative data; qualitative data were analyzed using a framework approach. Impediments to implementing guidelines included difficulties with electronic record systems, rigid management structures, competing priorities, and parental resistance. Facilitators included linkage with regional immunization registries, positive social interactions, and performance feedback. Findings suggest that improving immunization delivery requires not only awareness of recommendations and training in improvement methods but also efforts to ameliorate contextual factors that impede immunization delivery.
BACKGROUND It is unclear which pediatric disaster triage (PDT) strategy yields the best accuracy or best patient outcomes.   METHODS We conducted a cross-sectional analysis on a sample of emergency medical services providers from a prospective cohort study comparing the accuracy and triage outcomes for 2 PDT strategies (Smart and JumpSTART) and clinical decision-making (CDM) with no algorithm. Participants were divided into cohorts by triage strategy. We presented 10-victim, multi-modal disaster simulations. A Delphi method determined patients' expected triage levels. We compared triage accuracy overall and for each triage level (RED/Immediate, YELLOW/Delayed, GREEN/Ambulatory, BLACK/Deceased).   RESULTS There were 273 participants (71 JumpSTART, 122 Smart, and 81 CDM). There was no significant difference between Smart triage and CDM. When JumpSTART triage was used, there was greater accuracy than with either Smart (P<0.001; OR [odds ratio]: 2.03; interquartile range [IQR]: 1.30, 3.17) or CDM (P=0.02; OR: 1.76; IQR: 1.10, 2.82). JumpSTART outperformed Smart for RED patients (P=0.05; OR: 1.48; IQR: 1.01,2.17), and outperformed both Smart (P<0.001; OR: 3.22; IQR: 1.78,5.88) and CDM (P<0.001; OR: 2.86; IQR: 1.53,5.26) for YELLOW patients. Furthermore, JumpSTART outperformed CDM for BLACK patients (P=0.01; OR: 5.55; IQR: 1.47, 20.0).   CONCLUSION Our simulation-based comparison suggested that JumpSTART triage outperforms both Smart and CDM. JumpSTART outperformed Smart for RED patients and CDM for BLACK patients. For YELLOW patients, JumpSTART yielded more accurate triage results than did Smart triage or CDM.
OBJECTIVE To assess the causes and preventability of pediatric readmissions from the perspectives of parents and their physicians to guide future interventions.   METHODS Parent interview, physician survey, and medical record review were completed for children who were readmitted to a pediatric hospitalist service within 30 days of an index admission. Questions were asked about Health Belief Model constructs (perceived severity, susceptibility or preventability of admission, and perceived barriers), discharge readiness, and follow-up plans. Parent and physician perceptions about reasons for readmissions were examined, and responses to open-ended questions were coded.   RESULTS 60 parent-physician pairs completed the study. The mean age of the patients was 6.43 (SD 6.42) years; 45% (n=27) had a chronic disease, and 47% (n=28) of patients were readmitted with the same or similar condition as in the previous hospitalization. At readmission, parents were more likely than physicians to think that the condition was serious (parent 98%, physician 76%; P<.001) and that the readmission could have been prevented (parent 59%, physician 36%; P=.04). Most parents (63%) and physicians (65%) thought it was likely that the child may have future hospitalizations. Opportunities to prevent readmission included need for parent education, improving medication access and adherence, and need for coordination of follow-up care.   CONCLUSIONS Many parents and physicians thought the readmission was preventable, and the majority of both thought that the patient was susceptible to another hospitalization. Parents and physicians suggest opportunities to improve care processes during hospitalization and in services provided after discharge to reduce readmissions.
This study was conducted to survey US pediatric specialists about administration of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) immunoprophylaxis, communication patterns among physicians and parents, and barriers to access. Separate surveys were sent to neonatologists, pediatricians, pediatric pulmonologists, and pediatric cardiologists. Most physicians (93.5%) routinely recommended immunoprophylaxis to high-risk children. Most respondents (71.8%) reported that >50.0% of eligible infants and young children received each monthly dose throughout the RSV season, with the first dose most commonly administered before discharge from the birth hospitalization. To ensure receipt of subsequent doses, specialists frequently scheduled a follow-up visit at the end of the current appointment. All specialists reported insurance denials as the biggest obstacle to the administration of immunoprophylaxis to high-risk children. These findings may be used to improve adherence to immunoprophylaxis by enhancing education and physician-parent communications about severe RSV disease prevention, and by reducing known barriers to use of this preventive therapy.
PURPOSE The aim of this study was to establish a method for determining administered activities for (68)Ga-labelled peptides. Dose calculations were based on the weight-independent effective dose model proposed by the EANM paediatric dosage card for use in paediatric nuclear medicine.   METHODS Previously published time-integrated activity coefficients for (68)Ga-DOTATATE, (68)Ga-DOTATOC and (68)Ga-pentixafor were used to calculate age-independent effective doses. Consequently, the corresponding weight-dependent effective dose coefficients were rescaled according to the formalism of the EANM dosage card to determine the radiopharmaceutical class of 혻(68)Ga-labelled peptides ('multiples') and to calculate the baseline activities based on an upper limit for administered activity (185혻MBq) in an adult.   RESULTS All calculated normalization factors suggest that the (68)Ga-labelled peptides are class 'B' radiopharmaceuticals. The baseline activity for all compounds is 12.8혻MBq. In analogy to (18)F-fluoride, we recommend a minimum activity of 14혻MBq.   CONCLUSION For paediatric nuclear medicine applications involving (68)Ga-labelled peptides, we suggest determining administered activities based on the formalism proposed in this work. The corresponding effective doses from these procedures will remain age-independent.
It is not uncommon in pediatric clinical practice to encounter children with musculoskeletal symptoms. A number of disparate conditions can present with joint complaints in children. In this article, the author describes the clinical approach to a child presenting with joint complaints. A detailed clinical history, including the family history, along with a complete physical examination can provide vital clues to the underlying condition in most cases. A structured screening examination of the musculoskeletal system that has been recently developed (i.e., pGALS) is also discussed. It is also pointed out that the pattern of joint involvement gives us one of the most important clues to the etiology of arthritis. The pediatrician has to be aware of the conditions that can have arthritis as one of the manifestations so as to investigate and treat the child accordingly.
PURPOSE Ventriculomegaly in infants with congenital myotonic dystrophy (CDM) is common, and the neurosurgical determination of shunting is complex. The natural history of CDM-associated ventriculomegaly from prenatal to natal to postnatal stages is poorly known. The relationship between macrocephaly and ventriculomegaly, incidence of shunt necessity, and early mortality outcomes lack pooled data analysis. This study aims to review clinical features and pathophysiology of CDM, with emphasis on ventriculomegaly progression, ventriculomegaly association with macrocephaly, and incidence of shunting.   METHODS This is a literature review with pooled data analysis and case report.   RESULTS One hundred four CDM patients were reviewed in 13 articles that mentioned CDM with ventriculomegaly and/or head circumference. Data was very limited: only 7 patients had data on the presence or absence of prenatal ventriculomegaly, 97 on ventriculomegaly at birth, and 32 on whether or not the ventricles enlarged post-natally. Three patients of 7 (43 %) had pre-natally diagnosed ventriculomegaly, 43 of 97 (44 %) had ventriculomegaly at birth, and only 5 of 32 (16 %) had progressive enlargement of ventricles post-natally. Only 5 of 104 patients had a documented shunt placement: 1 for obstructive, 1 for a post-hemorrhagic communicating, 2 for a communicating hydrocephalus without hemorrhage, and 1 with unknown indication. Of 13 macrocephalic patients with data about ventricular size, 12 had ventriculomegaly.   CONCLUSIONS Ventriculomegaly occurs regularly with CDM but most often does not require CSF diversion. Decisions regarding neurosurgical intervention will necessarily be based on limited information, but shunting should only occur once dynamic data confirms hydrocephalus.
A 13-yr-old boy bearing lymphedema and congenital deafness had distinct hematological abnormalities consisting of reduced monocytes, B cells, and dendritic cells in the peripheral blood as well as MDS with normal karyotype in the bone marrow. The patient was diagnosed with Emberger syndrome by sequencing of GATA2 DNA, and underwent RIST from an HLA-matched unrelated donor. Prompt engraftment and immunological reconstitution were observed without any severe RRT. As most patients with GATA2 anomaly died due to the development of AML or active infections, RIST could be a promising treatment option before progression of advanced MDS.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES Within hospital pediatric units, there is a lack of consistent application or modeling of the American Academy of Pediatrics recommendations for safe infant sleep. The purpose of this study was to improve safe sleep practices for infants in nonneonatal pediatric units with implementation of specific interventions.   METHODS This multi-institutional study was conducted by using baseline observations collected for sleep location, position, and environment (collectively, 'safe sleep') of infants admitted to pediatric units. Interventions consisted of: (1) staff education, including a commitment to promote safe sleep; (2) implementing site-generated safe sleep policies; (3) designating supply storage in patient rooms; and/or (4) caregiver education. Postintervention observations of safe sleep were collected. Eight hospitals participated from the Inpatient FOCUS Group of the Children's Hospital Association. Each site received institutional review board approval/exemption.   RESULTS Safe sleep was observed for 4.9% of 264 infants at baseline and 31.2% of 234 infants postintervention (P<.001). Extra blankets, the most common of unsafe items, were present in 77% of cribs at baseline and 44% postintervention. However, the mean number of unsafe items observed in each sleeping environment was reduced by >50% (P=.001).   CONCLUSIONS Implementation of site-specific interventions seems to improve overall safe sleep in inpatient pediatric units, although continued improvement is needed. Specifically, extra items are persistently left in the sleeping environment. Moving forward, hospitals should evaluate their compliance with American Academy of Pediatrics recommendations and embrace initiatives to improve modeling of safe sleep.
BACKGROUND Current guidelines do not clearly outline when assent should be attained from paediatric research participants, nor do they detail the necessary elements of the assent process. This stems from the fact that the fundamental justification behind the concept of assent is misunderstood. In this paper, we critically assess three widespread ethical arguments used for assent: children's rights, the best interests of the child, and respect for a child's developing autonomy. We then outline a newly-developed two-fold justification for the assent process: respect for the parent's pedagogical role in teaching their child to become an autonomous being and respect for the child's moral worth.   DISCUSSION We argue that the ethical grounding for the involvement of young children in medical decision-making does not stem from children's rights, the principle of best interests, or respect for developing autonomy. An alternative strategy is to examine the original motivation to engage with the child. In paediatric settings there are two obligations on the researcher: an obligation to the parents who are responsible for determining when and under what circumstances the child develops his capacity for autonomy and reasoning, and an obligation to the child himself. There is an important distinction between respecting a decision and encouraging a decision. This paper illustrates that the process of assent is an important way in which respect for the child as an individual can be demonstrated, however, the value lies not in the child's response but the fact that his views were solicited in the first place. This paper demonstrates that the common justifications for the process of assent are incomplete. Assent should be understood as playing a pedagogical role for the child, helping to teach him how specific decisions are made and therefore helping him to become a better decision-maker. How the researcher engages with the child supports his obligation to the child's parents, yet why the researcher engages with the child stems from the child's moral worth. Treating a child as having moral worth need not mean doing what they say but it may mean listening, considering, engaging or involving them in the decision.
BACKGROUND In pediatric oncology, many oncologists invite their own patients to participate in research. Inclusion within a dependent relationship is considered to potentially compromise voluntariness of consent. Currently, it is unknown to what extent those involved in pediatric oncology experience the dependent relationship as a threat to voluntary informed consent, and what they see as safeguards to protect voluntary informed consent within a dependent relationship.   AIM We performed a qualitative study among key actors in pediatric oncology to explore their experiences with the dependent relationship and voluntary informed consent.   METHODS We conducted three focus groups and 25 semi-structured, in-depth interviews with pediatric oncologists, research coordinators, Research Ethics Committee members, parents of children with cancer, and adolescents with cancer.   RESULTS Professionals regarded the dependent relationship both as a potential threat to and as a positive influence on voluntary decision making. Parents and adolescents did not feel as though dependency upon the oncologist influenced their decisions. They valued the involvement of their own physician in the informed consent process. The professionals suggested three strategies to protect voluntariness: emphasizing voluntariness; empowering families; involvement of an independent person.   CONCLUSIONS Although the dependent relationship between pediatric oncologists, patients and parents may be problematic for voluntary informed consent, this is not necessarily the case. Moreover, the involvement of treating physicians may even have a positive impact on the informed consent process. Although we studied pediatric oncology, our results may also apply to many other fields of pediatric medicine where research and care are combined, for example, pediatric rheumatology, neurology and nephrology. Clinical trials in these fields are inevitably often designed, initiated and conducted by medical specialists closely involved in patient care.
BACKGROUND Providing safe anaesthesia to children especially in emergency situations goes hand in hand with instant availability of appropriately sized equipment and monitoring. This is best achieved using a designated paediatric anaesthetic trolley containing essential equipment. Guidance for the contents of such trolleys is neither explicit nor standard. We used a survey and a qualitative enquiry to develop a checklist suitable for standardisation of contents and layout of paediatric anaesthetic trolleys.   METHODS We conducted an observational study of our current practice and paediatric anaesthetic trolleys in a tertiary care hospital. We also performed a qualitative enquiry from experienced paediatric anaesthetists and operating department practitioners.We developed an empirical checklist to ensure the minimum 'essential' equipment is available on these trolleys and implemented a standard layout to facilitate its use.   RESULTS We identified 11 areas in our hospital where anaesthesia is provided to children, each with a designated paediatric anaesthetic trolley. There were considerable deficiencies of items in all areas with no standard pattern or layout. Different types of trolleys contributed to the confusion. In addition, overstocking of inappropriate items hindered its efficient use.   CONCLUSION Standardising the contents and layout of the paediatric anaesthetic trolley is an essential pre-requisite for safer paediatric anaesthetic practice.
INTRODUCTION Sleep disorders are common in children with neurological disorders. The aim of this study is to know the opinion of neuropediatricians and the prevalence of these disturbances in Spain.   PATIENTS AND METHODS Multicenter cross-sectional study (12 Spanish hospitals, 15 researchers). BEARS survey was collected in three groups: A (2-5 years), (6-12 years), and C (> 12 years). The opinion of neuropediatricians was also collected.   RESULTS 939 questionnaires were filled. The main results in groups B and C were ADHD (32.4% and 30.1% respectively) and headache (25.1% and 27.6% respectively), whereas in group A neurodevelopmental disorders (32.4%) and epilepsy (21.4%) were the main diagnoses. Disturbances in at least one area of sleep were found in 92% of children in group A (n = 209, mean 3 years), 64.2% in group B (n = 534, mean 9.4 years) and 58.2% in group C (n = 196, mean 13.7 years). Sixty-one surveys were answered by neuropediatricians (16.75% of the total sent), estimating that less than a quarter of the patients (24.5%) suffered. Even, up to 23% of doctors claimed that the prevalence of sleep disorders was < 10%.   CONCLUSIONS 58-92% of parents-patients under follow up at a neuropediatrician office in Spain have some degree of disturbed sleep. Although most neurologists emphasize the importance of an early diagnosis and treatment of sleep disorders in children with neurological disorders, its frequency is often underestimated (risk of underdiagnosis).
Cardiovascular disease is one of the main fields of application for telemedicine, with benefits in almost all areas in the continuum of cardiovascular disease. The greatest impact has been shown in the early diagnosis of cardiovascular disease, in second consultation, between non-cardiologist and cardiologist and between cardiologists, and in follow-up and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease. At present, the main area of implementation for telemedicine in cardiovascular disease is represented by pre-hospital triage, with telemedicine electrocardiogram in acute myocardial infarction. Significant results have also been achieved in the second opinion consultation of pediatric subjects with congenital cardiovascular disease, home-monitoring and the management of patients affected by chronic heart failure or with an implanted device. However, there is significant room for further improvement in delivering telemedicine assistance even in 'very-remote' populations, such as detainees, patients in developing countries or in underdeveloped areas of developed countries.
OBJECTIVES There are significant geographical differences in the prevalence and incidence of celiac disease that cannot be explained by HLA alone. More than 40 loci outside of the HLA region have been associated with celiac disease. We investigated the roles of these non-HLA genes in the development of tissue transglutaminase autoantibodies (tTGA) and celiac disease in a large international prospective cohort study.   METHODS A total of 424,788 newborns from the US and European general populations and first-degree relatives with type 1 diabetes were screened for specific HLA genotypes. Of these, 21,589 carried 1 of the 9 HLA genotypes associated with increased risk for type 1 diabetes and celiac disease; we followed 8676 of the children in a 15 y prospective follow-up study. Genotype analyses were performed on 6010 children using the Illumina ImmunoChip. Levels of tTGA were measured in serum samples using radio-ligand binding assays; diagnoses of celiac disease were made based on persistent detection of tTGA and biopsy analysis. Data were analyzed using Cox proportional hazards analyses.   RESULTS We found 54 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 5 genes associated with celiac disease (TAGAP, IL18R1, RGS21, PLEK, and CCR9) in time to celiac disease analyses (10-4>P>5.8x10-6). The hazard ratios (HR) for the SNPs with the smallest P values in each region were 1.59, 1.45, 2.23, 2.64, and 1.40, respectively. Outside of regions previously associated with celiac disease, we identified 10 SNPs in 8 regions that could also be associated with the disease (P<10-4). A SNP near PKIA (rs117128341, P = 6.5x10-8, HR = 2.8) and a SNP near PFKFB3 (rs117139146, P<2.8x10-7, HR = 4.9) reached the genome-wide association threshold in subjects from Sweden. Analyses of time to detection of tTGA identified 29 SNPs in 2 regions previously associated with celiac disease (CTLA4, P = 1.3x10-6, HR = 0.76 and LPP, P = 2.8x10-5, HR = .80) and 6 SNPs in 5 regions not previously associated with celiac disease (P<10-4); non-HLA genes are therefore involved in development of tTGA.   CONCLUSIONS In conclusion, using a genetic analysis of a large international cohort of children, we associated celiac disease development with 5 non-HLA regions previously associated with the disease and 8 regions not previously associated with celiac disease. We identified 5 regions associated with development of tTGA. Two loci associated with celiac disease progression reached a genome-wide association threshold in subjects from Sweden.
OBJECTIVE To describe the relationships between attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) care practices and subsequent medication use.   METHOD A retrospective cohort from a random sample of medical records in 50 pediatric practices with 188 providers, including 1,352 children who started ADHD medication, was studied. Independent variables included physician behaviors related to medication titration and monitoring of treatment response. Primary outcomes were number of days covered with ADHD medication during the first year of treatment and time from starting medicine to the first 30-day gap in medication supply. Multilevel modeling and Cox proportional hazards regression models were conducted.   RESULTS Children had an average medication supply of 217 days in the first year. Half experienced a 30-day gap in medication supply in the first 3 months. Nearly three-fourths had a medication adjustment in the first year with the first adjustment usually being a dosage change. The average time to the first medication adjustment was over 3 months. Physician's first contact with parents occurred in the first month of treatment for less than half, with the average time being over 2 months. Little variation related to ADHD care quality was accounted for at the physician level. Early titration and early contact were related to greater medication supply and continuity of treatment.   CONCLUSION Earlier physician-delivered ADHD care (e.g.,혻contact with parent after starting medication and medication adjustment) is related to greater medication supply and continuity. It remains to be determined whether interventions that improve the quality of titration and monitoring practices for children with ADHD would also improve medication continuity.
OBJECTIVE Evaluation of efforts to redesign primary care has primarily focused on clinical services, with limited assessment of the effect on learners. This study evaluated the change in pediatric residents' perception of training, teamwork, and patient care in 2 different continuity clinic settings that were implementing patient-focused primary care redesign.   METHODS Continuity clinic residents at 2 large urban pediatric training programs completed a survey, developed de novo, before and after primary care redesign. Differences in the proportion of positive (4 of 5) ratings before and after redesign were compared using chi-squared tests in 2 practice sites, each of which focused on improving specific aspects of their practice.   RESULTS The response rate was >70% in both sites and in both years. Residents in the site focused on teamwork and continuity were more likely to report improved teamwork training (64% vs 83%; P혻<혻.05) and teamwork among residents (82% vs 98%; P혻<혻.05) after redesign. Perception of overall quality of care in clinic also improved (47% vs 68%; P혻<혻.05). Residents in the site focused on clinic flow were more likely to report that physicians, nurses, and administrative staff worked together to optimize patient flow after redesign (25% vs 48%; P혻<혻.05). No improvements were seen in domains without focused interventions in either site.   CONCLUSIONS Practice redesign focused on clinical outcomes can positively affect resident perception of their training and clinical experience in continuity clinic. Future redesign efforts deliberately involving residents might further enhance continuity clinic training.
Concussion and mild traumatic brain injury are common injuries in pediatrics, and posttraumatic headache is the most common complaint following them. Although most children and teens recover from a simple, isolated concussion without incidents within 1-2 weeks, some develop symptoms that can last for months. It is important to manage both acute and persistent posttraumatic headaches appropriately to speed recovery, minimize disability, and maximize function. In this article, we review the definitions, epidemiology, and current recommendations for the evaluation and treatment of acute and persistent posttraumatic headaches. Although this is still a developing field and there is much that we still need to learn about concussion and the best strategies to prevent and treat these injuries and their sequelae, we hope that this review will help providers to understand the current evidence and treatment recommendations to improve care for children with concussion and mild traumatic brain injury.
In this article, the use of complementary and integrative medicine for the management of pediatric headache is reviewed. Despite limited numbers of studies for pediatric headaches, children and families seek these services. Integrative medicine focuses on treating the whole person, integrating conventional medicine with mind-body-spirit methods. Nutriceuticals include dietary supplements in the form of vitamins (vitamin D), minerals (magnesium), coenzyme Q, butterbur, and melatonin. Acupuncture, stimulation, physical therapy and Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulations (TENS) or Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) may also be useful in selected patients. The efficacy of all these therapeutic alternatives in pediatric headache is presented here. Primary care providers, neurologists, and headache specialists alike need to be informed of such interventions and integrate these approaches, when appropriate, in the management of children with headaches.
Comorbid conditions frequently occur in pediatric headaches and may significantly affect their management. Comorbidities that have been associated with pediatric headaches include attention-deficit or hyperactivity disorder, autism, developmental disabilities, depression, anxiety, epilepsy, obesity, infantile colic, atopic disorders, inflammatory bowel disease, and irritable bowel syndrome. The goal of this article is to review these comorbidities associated with pediatric headache, thereby empowering child neurologists to identify common triggers and tailor management strategies that address headache and its comorbidities.
Applications of health information technology (health IT) are now widespread in the form of electronic medical records (EMRs), greatly reshaping the practice of clinical pediatrics. Population health stands to benefit greatly from the data produced by the alignment of pediatrics with other social determinants of health: medical care, genetics, individual behavior, social and physical environment. Before this potential can be realized, population health information models must be integrated into the design and evolution of EMRs and other data sources.
Over the past 15 years, with alarming and illustrative reports released from the Institute of Medicine, quality improvement and patient safety have come to the forefront of medical care. This article reviews quality improvement frameworks and methodology and the use of evidence-based guidelines for pediatric emergency medicine. Top performance measures in pediatric emergency care are described, with examples of ongoing process and quality improvement work in our pediatric emergency department.
The role of resident and fellow trainees in patient-centered improvement processes is critical to a health care system's success. There is a growing impetus to incorporate patient safety and quality improvement into the educational framework of physicians in training. As part of the Next Accreditation System, practice-based learning and improvement and systems-based practice domains mandate that residents and fellows be assessed on their ability to enhance the quality of care and advocate for patient safety. Best practices for incorporating quality improvement and patient safety into the curriculum of residents and fellows remains an area of interest for educators.
Patient safety and quality are 2 of many competing priorities facing health care providers. As safety and quality rise on the agenda of executives, payers, and consumers, competing priorities, such as financial sustainability, patient engagement, regulatory standards, and governmental demands, remain organizational priorities. Nursing represents the largest health care profession in the United States and has the ability to influence the culture of patient safety and quality. It is essential for hospital leadership to provide a culture whereby nurses and staff are actively engaged and feel comfortable speaking up. Transparency is critical in the strategy and implementation of improving quality and safety.
This article describes important aspects of health-care quality, quality improvement (QI), patient safety (PS), and approaches to research on QI/PS efforts. Common terminology to facilitate an understanding of QI and PS research is reviewed. Models for understanding system and process performance are discussed. Introductory considerations to QI data and QI research analytical considerations are provided.
This article examines the current role of telehealth as a tool in the delivery of pediatric health care. It defines telemedicine and telehealth and provides an overview of different types of telehealth services. The article then explores the potential of telehealth to improve pediatric health care quality and safety through increased access to care, enhanced communication, expanded educational opportunities, and better resource utilization. It also discusses current challenges to the implementation of telehealth, including technological, financial, and licensing barriers, as well as provider, patient, and legal concerns.
BACKGROUND The prevalence of tranexamic acid (TXA) use for trauma and other conditions in children is unknown.   OBJECTIVES The objective of this study was to describe the use of TXA in United States (US) children's hospitals for children in general, and specifically for trauma.   METHODS We conducted a secondary analysis of a large, administrative database of 36 US children's hospitals. We included children <18혻years of age who received TXA (based on pharmacy charge codes) between 2009 and 2013. Patients were grouped into the following diagnostic categories: trauma, congenital heart surgery, scoliosis surgery, craniosynostosis/craniofacial surgery, and other, based on the International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision principal procedure and diagnostic codes. TXA administration and dosage, in-hospital clinical variables, and diagnostic and procedure codes were documented.   RESULTS A total of 35,478 pediatric encounters with a TXA charge were included in the study cohort. The proportions of children who received TXA were similar across the years 2009 to 2013. Only 110 encounters (0.31%) were for traumatic conditions. Congenital heart surgery accounted for more than one-half of the encounters (22,863; 64%). Overall, the median estimated weight-based dose of TXA was 22.4혻mg/kg (interquartile range, 7.3-84.9혻mg/kg).   CONCLUSIONS We identified a wide frequency of use and range of doses of TXA for several diagnostic conditions in children. The use of TXA among injured children, however, appears to be rare despite its common use and efficacy among injured adults. Additional work is needed to identify appropriate indications for TXA and provide dosage guidelines among children with a variety of conditions, including trauma.
BACKGROUND Pediatric Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (PAQLQ) provides detailed information on QoL in asthmatic children, whereas Childhood Asthma Control Test (C-ACT) Questionnaire is the most validated instrument for asthma control. No study assessed the relationship between C-ACT and QoL in children by means of those instruments. The aim of this study was to determine whether a QoL estimation is possible using the C-ACT questionnaire in asthmatic children.   METHODS Medical history, spirometry, C-ACT, and PAQLQ were assessed in 144 (60% male) outpatient asthmatic children from September 2011 to November 2014. A generalized linear model (GLM) for the prediction of PAQLQ was obtained through a stepwise procedure starting from a full model with all C-ACT items, and predictive nomograms were created.   RESULTS Fifty-five (38%) well-controlled (WC) asthma, 37 (26%) partially controlled (PC) asthma, and 52 (36%) uncontrolled asthma (UA) patients were enrolled. Persistent asthmatics (PA) were significantly more uncontrolled (p < 0.0001). A significant reduction in FEV1 , FEV1 /FVC, and FEF25-75 (p = 0.005, p < 0.0001, and p < 0.001, respectively) was found in WC vs. UA. Through a stepwise process, a reduced model showed a positive relationship between the PAQLQ and the four items of C-ACT. The regression equations for predicted PAQLQ were ln(PAQLQ) = 1.17 + 0.05*C-ACT2 + 0.03*C-ACT3 + 0.04*C-ACT6 + 0.03*C-ACT7. Thus, a nomogram was constructed.   CONCLUSION The designed nomogram provides a highly predictive assessment of QoL in individual patients, facilitating a more comprehensive assessment of asthmatic children in usual clinical care.
OBJECTIVES Following pediatric moderate-to-severe traumatic brain injury (msTBI), few predictors have been identified that can reliably identify which individuals are at risk for long-term cognitive difficulties. This study sought to determine the relative contribution of detailed descriptors of injury severity as well as demographic and psychosocial factors to long-term cognitive outcomes after pediatric msTBI.   METHODS Participants included 8- to 19-year-olds, 46 with msTBI and 53 uninjured healthy controls (HC). Assessments were conducted in the post-acute and chronic stages of recovery. Medical record review provided details regarding acute injury severity. Parents also completed a measure of premorbid functioning and behavioral problems. The outcome of interest was four neurocognitive measures sensitive to msTBI combined to create an index of cognitive performance.   RESULTS Results indicated that none of the detailed descriptors of acute injury severity predicted cognitive performance. Only the occurrence of injury, parental education, and premorbid academic competence predicted post-acute cognitive functioning. Long-term cognitive outcomes were best predicted by post-acute cognitive functioning.   DISCUSSION The findings suggest that premorbid factors influence cognitive outcomes nearly as much as the occurrence of a msTBI. Furthermore, of youth with msTBI who initially recover to a level of moderate disability or better, a brief cognitive battery administered within several months after injury can best predict which individuals will experience poor long-term cognitive outcomes and require additional services.
BACKGROUND The optimal heart rate (HR) for children after trauma is based on values derived at rest for a given age. As the stages of shock are based in part on HR, a better understanding of how HR varies after trauma is necessary. Admission HRs of pediatric trauma patients were analyzed to determine which ranges were associated with lowest mortality.   MATERIALS AND METHODS The National Trauma Data Bank was used to evaluate all injured patients ages 1-14 years admitted between 2007 and 2011. Patients were stratified into eight groups based on age. Clinical characteristics and outcomes were recorded, and regression analysis was used to determine mortality odds ratios (ORs) for HR ranges within each age group.   RESULTS A total of 214,254 pediatric trauma patients met inclusion criteria. The average admission HR and systolic blood pressure were 104.7 and 120.4, respectively. Overall mortality was 0.8%. The HR range associated with lowest mortality varied across age groups and, in children ages 7-14, was narrower than accepted resting HR ranges. The lowest risk of mortality for patients ages 5-14 was captured at HR 80-99.   CONCLUSIONS The HR associated with lowest mortality after pediatric trauma frequently differs from resting HR. Our data suggest that a 7y old with an HR of 115 bpm may be in stage III shock, whereas traditional HR ranges suggest that this is a normal rate for this child. Knowing when HR is critically high or low in the pediatric trauma population will better guide treatment.
BACKGROUND Surgical wound classification (SWC) communicates the degree of contamination in the surgical field and is used to stratify risk of surgical site infection and compare outcomes among centers. We hypothesized that by changing from nurse-directed to surgeon-directed SWC during a structured operative debrief, we will improve accuracy of documentation.   METHODS An institutional review board-approved retrospective chart review was performed. Two time periods were defined: initially, SWC was determined and recorded by the circulating nurse (before debrief, June 2012-May 2013) and allowing 6 mo for adoption and education, we implemented a structured operative debriefing including surgeon-directed SWC (after debrief, January 2014-August 2014). Accuracy of SWC was determined for four commonly performed pediatric general surgery operations: inguinal hernia repair (clean), gastrostomy 짹 Nissen fundoplication (clean contaminated), appendectomy without perforation (contaminated), and appendectomy with perforation (dirty).   RESULTS One hundred eighty-three cases before debrief and 142 cases after debrief met inclusion criteria. No differences between time periods were noted in regard to patient demographics, ASA class, or case mix. Accuracy of wound classification improved before debrief (42% versus 58.5%, P = 0.003). Before debrief, 26.8% of cases were overestimated or underestimated by more than one wound class, versus 3.5% of cases after debrief (P < 0.001). Interestingly, most after debrief contaminated cases were incorrectly classified as clean contaminated.   CONCLUSIONS Implementation of a structured operative debrief including surgeon-directed SWC improves the percentage of correctly classified wounds and decreases the degree of inaccuracy in incorrectly classified cases. However, after implementation of the debriefing, we still observed a 41.5% rate of incorrect documentation, most notably in contaminated cases, indicating further education and process improvement is needed.
BACKGROUND Adult and pediatric emergency physicians have been using point-of-care ultrasound (POCUS) for many years. It is a fast, usually painless, noninvasive diagnostic tool that does not expose the patient to radiation. Information about its current implementation in pediatric emergency medicine (PEM) fellowship programs in Canada is lacking.   OBJECTIVE The main goal of our study was to investigate current integration and future direction of POCUS training in Canadian PEM programs.   METHODS The study consisted of two surveys designed for fellows and program directors of all Canadian PEM fellowship programs. The major aspects of the survey were 1) to describe current training in POCUS in fellowship programs, 2) to compare the kind of training that programs offer with what fellows actually receive, and 3) a needs assessment by fellows and program directors for future POCUS training programs. Surveys were sent to program directors and passed on to their fellows.   RESULTS Ninety percent of fellowship program directors as well as 70% (42/60) of fellows responded to the survey. A formal POCUS curriculum exists in five of the nine PEM programs included in this study. Three programs offer specific pediatric POCUS training. The main application is the FAST (focused assessment with sonography for trauma) exam.   CONCLUSION There is a wide variation in POCUS content and delivery across PEM fellowship programs, as well as differences in perceptions of current training and of needs by fellows and program directors. However, given that both groups feel POCUS is very important and essential for PEM training, the opportunity exists to develop a standardized curriculum across Canada.
OBJECTIVE The purpose of this study was to determine if pediatric specialty pediatric team (SPT) interfacility-transported children from community emergency departments to a pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) have improved 48-hour mortality.   METHODS This is a multicenter, historic cohort analysis of the VPS, LLC PICU clinical database (VPS, LLC, Los Angeles, CA) for all PICU directly admitted pediatric patients  18 years of age from January 1, 2007, to March 31, 2009. Categoric variables were analyzed by the chi-square and Mann-Whitney tests for non-normally distributed continuous variables. The propensity score was determined by multiple logistic regression analysis. Nearest neighbor matching developed emergency medical services SPT pairs by similar propensity score. Multiple regression analyses of the matched pairs determined the association of SPT with 48-hour PICU mortality. P values < .05 were considered significant.   RESULTS This study included 3,795 PICU discharges from 12 hospitals. SPT-transported children were more severely ill, younger in age, and more likely to have a respiratory diagnosis (P < .0001). Unadjusted 48-hour PICU mortality was statistically significantly higher for SPT transports (2.04% vs. 0.070%, P혻=혻.0028). Multiple regressions adjusted for propensity score, illness severity, and PICU site showed no significant difference in 48-hour PICU mortality.   CONCLUSION No significant difference in adjusted 48-hour PICU mortality for children transported by transport team type was discovered.
BACKGROUND Cost-effectiveness analysis of pediatric vaccines for infectious diseases often requires quality-of-life (utility) weights.   OBJECTIVE To investigate how utility weights have been elicited and used in this context.   METHODS A systematic review was conducted of studies published between January 1990 and July 2013 that elicited or used utility weights in cost-effectiveness analyses of vaccines for pediatric populations. The review focused on vaccines for 17 infectious diseases and is presented following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) methodology.   RESULTS A total of 6410 titles and abstracts and 225 full-text articles were reviewed. Of those selected for inclusion (n = 101), 15 articles described the elicitation of utility weights and 86 described economic modeling studies using utilities. Various methods were used to generate utilities, including time trade-off, contingent valuation, and willingness to pay, as well as a preference-based measure with associated value sets, such as the EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire or the Health Utilities Index. In modeling studies, the source of utilities used was often unclear, poorly reported, or based on weak underlying evidence. We found no articles that reported on the elicitation or use of utilities in diphtheria, polio, or tetanus.   CONCLUSIONS The scarcity of appropriate utility weights for vaccine-preventable infectious diseases in children and a lack of standardization in their use in economic assessments limit the ability to accurately assess the benefits associated with interventions to prevent infectious diseases. This is an issue that should be of concern to those making decisions regarding the prevention and treatment of infectious childhood illnesses.
Cryptogenic organizing pneumonia (COP) is a rare entity in childhood, particularly in previously healthy children. Moreover, the spontaneous remission of the disease is exceptional. We report on the case of a previously healthy 10-year-old girl who consulted her doctor for a 2-month history of mild pyrexia, fatigue, weight loss, and exertional dyspnea with no response to amoxicillin. A chest CT revealed bilateral, asymmetrical peribronchovascular consolidation areas predominating in the lower lobes and imaging features of COP. The bronchoalveolar lavage and the biological findings were negative. On follow-up, the girl showed clinical and radiological remission of the disease with no treatment. Our report describes an extremely rare case of spontaneously resolving COP in a child, the diagnosis being made based on the imaging pattern.
In children, severe emergencies and cardiorespiratory arrests in particular are relatively rare but time-critical events. As compared to adults, hypoxic arrests caused by respiratory disorders that may subsequently result in pulseless electrical activity or asystole are more prevalent. The current Paediatric Life Support (PLS) Guidelines 2015 of the European Resuscitation Council (ERC) acknowledge both limited scientific evidence and aspects of practicability. They also take into account the rather limitedpaediatric routine that most providers have as well as national and local infrastructural differences. Particular emphasis was put on early recognition and treatment of a critically ill or injured child, hence the prevention of cardiorespiratory arrest and the early start of lay rescuer interventions. There have been no major changes in the 2010 algorithms, including retention of the ABC sequence (airway, breathing, circulation).
BACKGROUND The ethical, methodological, and technical aspects of pediatric research, often results in complications and delays in implementation. Our objective was to identify factors associated with the implementation duration of hospital-based pediatric studies.   METHODS All hospital-based pediatric studies sponsored by AP-HP between 2002 and 2008 were retrospectively identified. Association of the funding mechanism and methodological factors with the implementation duration was assessed using a multivariable mixed linear model. Pharmaceutical factors were explored as part of a subgroup analysis restricted to the studies involving drug therapy. Given that we took an exploratory approach, factors associated with implementation duration with p < 0.10 were kept in the final models.   RESULTS A total of 139 studies were evaluated. The median implementation duration was 17.1 months (range: 0.9-55.3 months), and tended to increase over time (from 14.9 [25(th) percentile-75(th) percentile: 11.5-19.9] months in 2002 to 23.7 [15.2-31.0] months in 2008, p = 0.01). External (coefficient [95 % confidence interval]: -7.7 [-11.9;-3.5] months, p < 0.001) and internal funding (-5.3 95 % CI [-9.8;-0.8], p = 0.02) compared to governmental funding and number of centers (-0.1 95 % CI[-0.2;0.02] months for 1 center increase, p = 0.07) were associated with reduced duration, whereas interventional study (either involving drug therapy (6.0 95 % CI[0.7;11.3] months, p = 0.03 or not (3.5 95 % CI[-0.3;7.3] months, p = 0.06) was associated with increased duration compared to observational study. Regarding the 35 studies involving drug therapy, external funding decreased duration (-6.7 95 % CI[-13.2;-0.2] months, p = 0.05), whereas studies involving solely a pediatric population (7.8 95 % CI[1.1;14.5] months, p = 0.01) (compared to mixed adult-pediatric population), a placebo-controlled design (6.6 95 % CI[0.9;12.3] months, p = 0.01), and inappropriate drug formulation for at least one drug used in the study (6.9 95 % CI[-0.2;14.0] months, p = 0.06) were associated with increased duration.   CONCLUSION Implementation of hospital-based pediatric studies primarily faced delays when they were interventional and, in particular, when they involved drug therapy. Regarding the latter, difficulties that resulted in delayed studies arose with respect to the supply of drugs and placebo in age-appropriate dosages and route of administration. Therefore, difficulties related to the use of pharmaceuticals need to be anticipated earlier in order to avoid implementation delays.
OBJECTIVE Demonstrate the need for increased education regarding otolaryngology-related manifestations of human papillomavirus (HPV). Highlight a need to incorporate otolaryngology-related manifestations of HPV in vaccine counseling.   STUDY DESIGN Survey.   SETTING Tertiary care academic children's hospital.   SUBJECTS Pediatric residents, fellows, and staff.   METHODS An online survey was made available regarding HPV education and vaccination.   RESULTS Participants (N = 348) initiated the survey representing 28.4%, 25.6%, and 19.0% postgraduate year 1, 2, and 3 residents, respectively, as well as 17.5% chief residents/fellows and 9.5% attendings. Participants rated their prior education as none or fair regarding recurrent respiratory papillomatosis (63.8%) and oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (68.3%). In contrast, 60.6% and 70.9% rated their education on genital warts and cervical cancer correspondingly as good or excellent. When asked what was routinely discussed during HPV vaccine counseling, 63.3% reported 'never' discussing recurrent respiratory papillomatosis and 52.9% 'never' discussing oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma. A range from 92.7% to 95.5% responded that there was a need for increased education regarding HPV and its role in recurrent respiratory papillomatosis and oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma.   CONCLUSIONS Increased education about HPV and its otolaryngology-related manifestations should be undertaken to increase provider, patient, and parent awareness of recurrent respiratory papillomatosis and oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma. We propose that discussing the risks of otolaryngology-related disease be routinely included in HPV vaccination counseling.
BACKGROUND The Pediatrics Milestones Assessment Pilot employed a new multisource feedback (MSF) instrument to assess nine Pediatrics Milestones among interns and subinterns in the inpatient context.   OBJECTIVE To report validity evidence for the MSF tool for informing milestone classification decisions.   METHODS We obtained MSF instruments by different raters per learner per rotation. We present evidence for validity based on the unified validity framework.   RESULTS One hundred and ninety two interns and 41 subinterns at 18 Pediatrics residency programs received a total of 1084 MSF forms from faculty (40%), senior residents (34%), nurses (22%), and other staff (4%). Variance in ratings was associated primarily with rater (32%) and learner (22%). The milestone factor structure fit data better than simpler structures. In domains except professionalism, ratings by nurses were significantly lower than those by faculty and ratings by other staff were significantly higher. Ratings were higher when the rater observed the learner for longer periods and had a positive global opinion of the learner. Ratings of interns and subinterns did not differ, except for ratings by senior residents. MSF-based scales correlated with summative milestone scores.   CONCLUSION We obtain moderately reliable MSF ratings of interns and subinterns in the inpatient context to inform some milestone assignments.
IMPORTANCE The number of practicing pediatric surgeons has increased rapidly in the past 4 decades, without a significant increase in the incidence of rare diseases specific to the field. Maintenance of competency in the index procedures for these rare diseases is essential to the future of the profession.   OBJECTIVE To describe the demographic characteristics and operative experiences of practicing pediatric surgeons using Pediatric Surgery Board recertification case log data.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS We performed a retrospective review of 5 years of pediatric surgery certification renewal applications submitted to the Pediatric Surgery Board between 2009 and 2013. A surgeon's location was defined by population as urban, large rural, small rural, or isolated. Case log data were examined to determine case volume by category and type of procedures. Surgeons were categorized according to recertification at 10, 20, or 30 years.   MAIN OUTCOME AND MEASURE Number of index cases during the preceding year.   RESULTS Of 308 recertifying pediatric surgeons, 249 (80.8%) were men, and 143 (46.4%) were 46 to 55 years of age. Most of the pediatric surgeons (304 of 308 [98.7%]) practiced in urban areas (ie, with a population >50000 people). All recertifying applicants were clinically active. An appendectomy was the most commonly performed procedure (with a mean [SD] number of 49.3 [35.0] procedures per year), nonoperative trauma management came in second (with 20.0 [33.0] procedures per year), and inguinal hernia repair for children younger than 6 months of age came in third (with 14.7 [13.8] procedures per year). In 6 of 10 'rare' pediatric surgery cases, the mean number of procedures was less than 2. Of 308 surgeons, 193 (62.7%) had performed a neuroblastoma resection, 170 (55.2%) a kidney tumor resection, and 123 (39.9%) an operation to treat biliary atresia or choledochal cyst in the preceding year. Laparoscopy was more frequently performed in the 10-year recertification group for Nissen fundoplication, appendectomy, splenectomy, gastrostomy/jejunostomy, orchidopexy, and cholecystectomy (P<.05) but not lung resection (P=.70). It was more frequently used by surgeons recertifying in the 10-year group (used in 11375 of 14456 procedures [78.7%]) than by surgeons recertifying in the 20-year (used in 6214 of 8712 procedures [71.3%]) or 30-year group (used in 2022 of 3805 procedures [53.1%]).   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Practicing pediatric surgeons receive limited exposure to index cases after training. With regard to maintaining competency in an era in which health care outcomes have become increasingly important, these results are concerning.
OBJECTIVES Transition and transfer to adult-oriented health care is an important yet challenging task for adolescents and young adults with chronic medical conditions. Transition practices vary widely, but a paucity of data makes determination of best practices difficult. We described North American pediatric gastroenterologists' preferences and present transition practice patterns and explored whether experience affected providers' perspectives.   METHODS An online survey was distributed via e-mail to members of the North American Society of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition. Participation was voluntary and answers were anonymous. Quantitative and qualitative analysis was performed.   RESULTS Almost three quarters of the 175 respondents describe providing transition or self-care management education, but only 23% use structured readiness assessments. Most respondents (88%) report having age cutoffs above which they no longer accept new referrals, with the most common age being 18 years (57%). One third report the ability to provide age-appropriate care to patients older than 21 years. Only 6% indicate that their practice or institution should provide care for individuals older than 25 years. Many (63%) indicate that their practice or institution has a policy regarding age of transfer, but most (79%) are flexible. Provider preferences for triggers to transfer to adult care diverge widely between age, milestones, and comorbidities. Overall, parent (81%) and patient (74%) attachment to pediatric health care providers are cited as the most common barriers to transition.   CONCLUSIONS Preferences and practices surrounding transition preparation and transfer to adult care vary widely, reflecting continued uncertainty regarding optimal transition strategies.
PURPOSE To report findings from a national effort initiated by three primary care certifying boards to catalyze change in primary care training.   METHOD In this mixed-method pilot study (2012-2014), 36 faculty in 12 primary care residencies (family medicine, internal medicine, pediatrics) from four institutions participated in a professional development program designed to prepare faculty to accelerate change in primary care residency training by uniting them in a common mission to create effective ambulatory clinical learning environments. Surveys administered at baseline and 12 months after initial training measured changes in faculty members' confidence and skills, continuity clinics, and residency training programs. Feasibility evaluation involved assessing participation. The authors compared quantitative data using Wilcoxon signed-rank and Bhapkar tests. Observational field notes underwent narrative analysis.   RESULTS Most participants attended two in-person training sessions (92% and 72%, respectively). Between baseline and 12 months, faculty members' confidence in leadership improved significantly for 15/19 (79%) variables assessed; their self-assessed skills improved significantly for 21/22 (95%) competencies. Two medical home domains ('Continuity of Care,' 'Support/Care Coordination') improved significantly (P < .05) between the two time periods. Analyses of qualitative data revealed that interdisciplinary learning communities formed during the program and served to catalyze transformational change.   CONCLUSIONS Results suggest that improvements in faculty perceptions of confidence and skills occurred and that the creation of interdisciplinary learning communities catalyzed transformation. Lengthening the intervention period, engaging other professions involved in training the primary care workforce, and a more discriminating evaluation design are needed to scale this model nationally.
There is evidence that nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is affected by gut microbiota. Therefore, we investigated its modifications in pediatric NAFLD patients using targeted metagenomics and metabolomics. Stools were collected from 61 consecutive patients diagnosed with nonalcoholic fatty liver (NAFL), nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), or obesity and 54 healthy controls (CTRLs), matched in a case-control fashion. Operational taxonomic units were pyrosequenced targeting 16S ribosomal RNA and volatile organic compounds determined by solid-phase microextraction gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The 慣-diversity was highest in CTRLs, followed by obese, NASH, and NAFL patients; and 棺-diversity distinguished between patients and CTRLs but not NAFL and NASH. Compared to CTRLs, in NAFLD patients Actinobacteria were significantly increased and Bacteroidetes reduced. There were no significant differences among the NAFL, NASH, and obese groups. Overall NAFLD patients had increased levels of Bradyrhizobium, Anaerococcus, Peptoniphilus, Propionibacterium acnes, Dorea, and Ruminococcus and reduced proportions of Oscillospira and Rikenellaceae compared to CTRLs. After reducing metagenomics and metabolomics data dimensionality, multivariate analyses indicated a decrease of Oscillospira in NAFL and NASH groups and increases of Ruminococcus, Blautia, and Dorea in NASH patients compared to CTRLs. Of the 292 volatile organic compounds, 26 were up-regulated and 2 down-regulated in NAFLD patients. Multivariate analyses found that combination of Oscillospira, Rickenellaceae, Parabacteroides, Bacteroides fragilis, Sutterella, Lachnospiraceae, 4-methyl-2-pentanone, 1-butanol, and 2-butanone could discriminate NAFLD patients from CTRLs. Univariate analyses found significantly lower levels of Oscillospira and higher levels of 1-pentanol and 2-butanone in NAFL patients compared to CTRLs. In NASH, lower levels of Oscillospira were associated with higher abundance of Dorea and Ruminococcus and higher levels of 2-butanone and 4-methyl-2-pentanone compared to CTRLs.   CONCLUSION An Oscillospira decrease coupled to a 2-butanone up-regulation and increases in Ruminococcus and Dorea were identified as gut microbiota signatures of NAFL onset and NAFL-NASH progression, respectively. (Hepatology 2017;65:451-464).
Heart transplant (HT) has been considered as a therapy for pediatric end-stage heart failure (HF) for more than four decades. Children with HF represent a very heterogeneous population, affected by different congenital or acquired heart diseases. Progresses in cardiac surgery and medical therapies, leading to improved prognosis, require periodic re-assessment of indications to HT. Systemic diseases, inherited inborn errors of metabolism, genetic syndromes or associated extra-cardiac malformations can contraindicate HT. In these conditions a tailored evaluation is needed. Pediatric heart disease, which more often may be an indication to HT, as well as prognostic parameters in pediatric HF are discussed.
This article is devoted to the topical problems of pediatric balneotherapy with special reference to the organization of the spa and health resort-based treatment of the children in the Russian Federation. The main issues discussed by the authors include the current state of health resort care for the children, the problem of statutory regulation of the activities of the children's spa and health resort facilities, the approaches to increasing the availability of the spa and health resort-based treatment for the children at the enhanced risk of the development of chronic diseases, disabilities, and tuberculosis. Also considered are the problems of the development of the regulatory framework for the medical rehabilitation of the children based at the spa and health resort facilities. The principal goals to be sought in climatotherapy, physiotherapy, balneotherapy, and pelotherapy in the pediatric context are outlined along with the further prospects for the development of the main areas of pediatric balneology.
OBJECTIVE Trust in physicians and health care system has been positively associated with health care outcomes. The purpose of this study is to explore the relationships among race, ethnicity, language, trust, and health care outcomes.   METHODS This prospective cross-sectional study took place in the pediatric emergency department of an intercity hospital. English- and Spanish-speaking guardians were asked to complete a demographic survey, the Pediatric Trust in Physicians Scale, and the Group-Based Medical Mistrust Scale.   RESULTS Four hundred seventy-five parents were surveyed, of which 21.35% identified as white, 35.05% as African American, and 53.26% as Hispanic; with respect to language: 88% English-speaking and 12% Spanish-speaking. No significant difference was seen in trust scores for sex, ethnicity, or religious affiliation. Non-Hispanics and English speakers demonstrated an overall higher trust in their physician. English-speaking participants were found to have higher percentages in all measured emergency department variables compared to Spanish speakers, including admittance (9.09% and 0.93%, respectively) as well as receiving interventions (42.34% and 5.53%, respectively).   CONCLUSIONS Our study shows that race and ethnicity influence trust and mistrust as well as actual health care outcomes. Interestingly, language barrier proved to be one of the greatest causes of health care disparities. Therefore, more research is needed to find a way to bridge the increasing language barrier between physicians and patients.
Children and adolescents who participate in intense sports training may face physical and psychologic stresses. The pediatric health care provider can play an important role in monitoring an athlete's preparation by obtaining a proper sports history, assessing sleep hygiene, discussing nutrition and hydration guidelines, and evaluating physiologic causes of fatigue. Educating parents and athletes on the potential risks of high-intensity training, inadequate rest and sleep, and a poor diet may improve the athlete's performance and prevent symptoms of overtraining syndrome. Infectious mononucleosis must also be considered a cause of fatigue among adolescents. The signs and symptoms of overtraining and burnout are discussed in this article.
BACKGROUND Following Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval, many drugs are prescribed for non-FDA-approved ('off-label') uses. If substantial evidence supports the efficacy and safety of off-label indications, manufacturers can pursue formal FDA approval through supplemental new drug applications (sNDAs). We evaluated the effect of FDA determinations on pediatric sNDAs for antipsychotic drugs on prescribing of these products in children.   METHODS Retrospective, segmented time-series analysis using new prescription claims during 2003-2012 for three atypical antipsychotics (olanzapine, quetiapine, ziprasidone). FDA approved the sNDAs for pediatric use of olanzapine and quetiapine in December 2009, but did not approve the sNDA for pediatric use of ziprasidone.   RESULTS During the months before FDA approval of its pediatric sNDA, new prescriptions of olanzapine decreased for both children and adults. After FDA approval, the increase in prescribing trends was similar for both age groups (P = 0.47 for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder; P = 0.37 for other indications). Comparable decreases in use of quetiapine were observed between pediatrics and adults following FDA approval of its pediatric sNDA (P = 0.88; P = 0.63). Prescribing of ziprasidone decreased similarly for pediatric and adult patients after FDA non-approval of its pediatric sNDA (P = 0.61; P = 0.79).   CONCLUSIONS The FDA's sNDA determinations relating to use of antipsychotics in children did not result in changes in use that favored the approved sNDAs and disfavored the unapproved sNDA. Improved communication may help translate the agency's expert judgments to clinical practice.
After several decades during which children tended to be excluded from clinical trials, provisions to encourage trials with children have been in place for some years both at international level and in individual countries. The Nuffield Council on Bioethics has published a broad-ranging report on the subject, which makes concrete proposals for decision-makers and comes at a crucial moment in the definition of European Union regulations on this topic.
Lumbar plexus block has been shown to be effective for providing postoperative analgesia after major hip surgeries in children. The goal of the study was to evaluate the feasibility of ultrasound guidance during lumbar plexus block in children undergoing hip surgery for congenital hip dislocation. After obtaining local institutional ethical committee approval and parental informed consent, ASA I or II, 1-6혻years old children undergoing hip surgery were included into the study. Lumbar plexus block was performed after general anaesthesia using ultrasound guided Shamrock Method. Bupivacaine 0.25혻% was used during block performance. Dose of the local anaesthetic was 1혻ml/kg and the maximum dose was limited to 20혻ml. In the postoperative period pain was assessed using modified CHEOPS (Children's Hospital Eastern Ontario Pain Scale) pain score. If pain score in the postoperative period exceeded 3, patients received IV paracetamol 15혻mg/kg-1. Morphine 0.1혻mg/kg-1 IV was planned to administer if pain scores were still higher than 3 despite paracetamol treatment. 75 patients whose mean age was 47혻months were enrolled into the study. All blocks were performed successfully and without complications. Mean time for the first analgesic is found as 10혻h after surgery. Only one patient required morphine in the recovery unit and 23 patients received paracetamol. US guided lumbar plexus block using Shamrock Method is an effective technique for providing postoperative analgesia after hip surgeries in children and it's effect lasts for 8-12혻h after surgery.
AIM Cost awareness has been proposed as a strategy for curbing the continued rise of healthcare costs. However, most physicians are unaware of the cost of diagnostic tests, and interventions have had mixed results. We sought to assess resident physician cost awareness following sustained visual display of costs into electronic health record (EHR) order entry screens.   STUDY DESIGN We completed a preintervention and postintervention web-based survey. Participants were physicians in internal medicine, paediatrics, combined medicine and paediatrics, obstetrics and gynaecology, emergency medicine, and orthopaedic surgery at one tertiary co are academic medical centre. Costs were displayed in the EHR for 1032 unique laboratory orders. We measured attitudes towards costs and estimates of Medicare reimbursement rates for 11 common laboratory and imaging tests.   RESULTS We received 209 survey responses during the preintervention period (response rate 71.1%) and 194 responses during the postintervention period (response rate 66.0%). The proportion of residents that agreed/strongly agreed that they knew the costs of tests they ordered increased after the cost display (8.6% vs 38.2%; p<0.001). Cost estimation accuracy among residents increased after the cost display from 24.0% to 52.4% for laboratory orders (p<0.001) and from 37.7% to 49.6% for imaging orders (p<0.001).   CONCLUSIONS Resident cost awareness and ability to accurately estimate laboratory order costs improved significantly after implementation of a comprehensive EHR cost display for all laboratory orders. The improvement in cost estimation accuracy for imaging orders, which did not have costs displayed, suggested a possible spillover effect generated by providing a cost context for residents.
The Nuclear Medicine Global Initiative (NMGI) was formed in 2012 and consists of 13 international organizations with direct involvement in nuclear medicine. The underlying objectives of the NMGI are to promote human health by advancing the field of nuclear medicine and molecular imaging, encourage global collaboration in education, and harmonize procedure guidelines and other policies that ultimately lead to improvements in quality and safety in the field throughout the world. For its first project, the NMGI decided to consider the issues involved in the standardization of administered activities in pediatric nuclear medicine. It was decided to divide the final report of this project into 2 parts. Part 1 was published in this journal in the spring of 2015. This article presents part 2 of the final report. It discusses current standards for administered activities in children and adolescents that have been developed by various professional organizations. It also presents an evaluation of the current practice of pediatric nuclear medicine specifically with regard to administered activities as determined by an international survey of 313 nuclear medicine clinics and centers from 29 countries. Lastly, it provides recommendations for a path toward global standardization of the administration of radiopharmaceuticals in children.
Availability and sourcing of investigational drugs for paediatric clinical trials is known to be a challenge for investigator-led clinical trials. The National Institute of Health Research Clinical Research Network: Children (CRN: Children) provides support for formulations and pharmacy related issues to researchers planning and setting up paediatric clinical trials within England. This paper reviews pharmacy and formulation support provided to a consecutive series of investigator-led clinical studies supported by CRN:Children. Case studies are included to describe some of the unique pharmaceutical challenges encountered. 44 trials were reviewed and a total of 103 products were required to support these clinical trials. UK authorised products were suitable for use for 62 of these 103 products. In the remaining 41 cases, 4 could be sourced as an authorised product within the European Union and the remaining 37 required bespoke manufacture. Bespoke manufacture of an investigational drug or placebo is costly. Typical costs for the initial development and testing of a bespoke investigational drug or placebo were in the range of 짙30,000-100,000 per product. The estimated cost for 19 out of 45 trials was available; in summary, the costs on a per patient per day of therapy basis ranged from under 짙1 to almost 짙600; short studies involving multiple agents are obviously the most expensive. This range is dependent upon the need for bespoke manufacture and also the number of participants within the trial. The arrangements for investigational drug supply can greatly affect the study design, regulatory requirements, trial logistics, as well as the total cost of research. As investigational product related activities are often costly, necessitating months of advance planning, it is imperative that specialist inputs are sought from the very start of the study design and planning process.
We report on four pediatric patients who presented with localized dermatitis in areas subject to repetitive friction due to their sitting positions. We propose that the cause of the eruption was irritant contact dermatitis due to frequently sitting in a crossed-leg sitting position, an entity for which we have coined the term pediatric positional sitting dermatitis (PPSD). The goal of this report is to raise clinicians' awareness of PPSD, which to our knowledge has not been previously described, and to discuss management of these patients.
Hypertension (HTN) in children is associated with early vascular aging (EVA) and underlying immunologic-metabolic abnormalities and accelerated biological maturation. Morphologic and functional vascular changes underlying EVA and HTN in children resemble those seen in the elderly including but not limited to an increase in intima-media thickness (IMT) and arterial stiffness and endothelial dysfunction. Although progeria syndrome leading to EVA and the development of clinically manifested cardiovascular (CV) disease in the second decade of life is a rare hereditary disorder, primary HTN, which is also associated with EVA, is much more common (reported in up to 10% in adolescents). EVA associated with HTN in children leads to the premature development of target organ injury in childhood and CV events in early adulthood. Limited evidence from prospective observational studies in children and adolescents indicates that early lifestyle measures (low salt/low sugar intake and exercise) or pharmacologic treatment of HTN, or both, partially reverses morphologic and functional changes underlying EVA such as an increase in carotid IMT and pulse wave velocity, a decrease in flow-mediated dilation of the brachial artery, and an increase in oxidative stress and visceral fat. Future mechanistic and therapeutic clinical trials are desirable to assess the mechanisms and treatment strategies of EVA in the context of HTN in children and their effect on CV events in early adulthood.
Children frequently receive medicines that are designed for adults. The dose of commercially available products is adapted, mostly based on the child's bodyweight, thereby neglecting differences in pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamics parameters. If commercial products are unsuitable for administration to children or are unavailable, extemporaneous pharmacy preparations are a good alternative. For this particular population, orodispersible films (ODFs) can be a highly attractive dosage form for the oral administration of drugs. ODFs are relatively easy to prepare in a hospital setting, create dose flexibility, and may suit an individual approach, especially for patients having difficulties in swallowing tablets or being fluid restricted. In this article, various aspects related to pharmacy preparations, clinical application, and preparation of ODFs for pediatric patients are highlighted and discussed.
Poverty related disparities in early child development and school readiness are a major public health crisis, the prevention of which has emerged in recent years as a national priority. Interventions targeting parenting and the quality of the early home language environment are at the forefront of efforts to address these disparities. In this article we discuss the innovative use of the pediatric primary care platform as part of a comprehensive public health strategy to prevent adverse child development outcomes through the promotion of parenting. Models of interventions in the pediatric primary care setting are discussed with evidence of effectiveness reviewed. Taken together, a review of this significant body of work shows the tremendous potential to deliver evidence-based preventive interventions to families at risk for poverty related disparities in child development and school readiness at the time of pediatric primary care visits. We also addresss considerations related to scaling and maximizing the effect of pediatric primary care parenting interventions and provide key policy recommendations.
Child poverty in the United States is widespread and has serious negative effects on the health and well-being of children throughout their life course. Child health providers are considering ways to redesign their practices in order to mitigate the negative effects of poverty on children and support the efforts of families to lift themselves out of poverty. To do so, practices need to adopt effective methods to identify poverty-related social determinants of health and provide effective interventions to address them. Identification of needs can be accomplished with a variety of established screening tools. Interventions may include resource directories, best maintained in collaboration with local/regional public health, community, and/or professional organizations; programs embedded in the practice (eg, Reach Out and Read, Healthy Steps for Young Children, Medical-Legal Partnership, Health Leads); and collaboration with home visiting programs. Changes to health care financing are needed to support the delivery of these enhanced services, and active advocacy by child health providers continues to be important in effecting change. We highlight the ongoing work of the Health Care Delivery Subcommittee of the Academic Pediatric Association Task Force on Child Poverty in defining the ways in which child health care practice can be adapted to improve the approach to addressing child poverty.
OBJECTIVE Childhood poverty is unacceptably common in the US and threatens the health, development, and lifelong well-being of millions of children. Health care providers should be prepared through medical curricula to directly address the health harms of poverty. In this article, authors from The Child Poverty Education Subcommittee (CPES) of the Academic Pediatric Association Task Force on Child Poverty describe the development of the first such child poverty curriculum for teachers and learners across the medical education continuum.   METHODS Educators, physicians, trainees, and public health professionals from 25 institutions across the United States and Canada were convened over a 2-year period and addressed 3 goals: 1) define the core competencies of child poverty education, 2) delineate the scope and aims of a child poverty curriculum, and 3) create a child poverty curriculum ready to implement in undergraduate and graduate medical education settings.   RESULTS The CPES identified 4 core domains for the curriculum including the epidemiology of child poverty, poverty-related social determinants of health, pathophysiology of the health effects of poverty, and leadership and action to reduce and prevent poverty's health effects. Workgroups, focused on each domain, developed learning goals and objectives, built interactive learning modules to meet them, and created evaluation and faculty development materials to supplement the core curriculum. An editorial team with representatives from each workgroup coordinated activities and are preparing the final curriculum for national implementation.   CONCLUSIONS This comprehensive, standardized child poverty curriculum developed by an international group of educators in pediatrics and experts in the health effects of poverty should prepare medical trainees to address child poverty and improve the health of poor children.
The persistence of child poverty in the United States and the pervasive health consequences it engenders present unique challenges to the health care system. Human capital theory and empirical observation suggest that the increased disease burden experienced by poor children originates from social conditions that provide suboptimal educational, nutritional, environmental, and parental inputs to good health. Faced with the resultant excess rates of pediatric morbidity, the US health care system has developed a variety of compensatory strategies. In the first instance, Medicaid, the federal-state governmental finance system designed to assure health insurance coverage for poor children, has increased its eligibility thresholds and expanded its benefits to allow greater access to health services for this vulnerable population. A second arm of response involves a gradual reengineering of health care delivery at the practice level, including the dissemination of patient-centered medical homes, the use of team-based approaches to care, and the expansion of care management beyond the practice to reach deep into the community. Third is a series of recent experiments involving the federal government and state Medicaid programs that includes payment reforms of various kinds, enhanced reporting, concentration on high-risk populations, and intensive case management. Fourth, pediatric practices have begun to make use of specific tools that permit the identification and referral of children facing social stresses arising from poverty. Finally, constituencies within the health care system participate in enhanced advocacy efforts to raise awareness of poverty as a distinct threat to child health and to press for public policy responses such as minimum wage increases, expansion of tax credits, paid family leave, universal preschool education, and other priorities focused on child poverty.
OBJECTIVES (a) Compare utilization of vancomycin in the ED prior to and after implementation of standardized treatment guideline and order template (STGOT); (b) assess the appropriate use as initial therapy based on indication versus admitting diagnosis.   METHODS Chart audits on all patients who received vancomycin and were admitted. Overall utilization and appropriateness of starting therapy were compared pre-and post-STGOT implementation.   RESULTS Overall utilization of vancomycin was 4% pre-STGOT compared to 3% post-STGOT; 98% of patients pre-STGOT compared to 99% post-STGOT received vancomycin appropriately.   CONCLUSION There was no difference in vancomycin utilization and appropriateness of initiating therapy after STGOT implementation.
OBJECTIVE Pre-hospital care, emergency department and critical care medicine are the key components of emergency medical service system. Two investigations about the pediatric critical care medicine in China mainland showed great progress. In recent years, most hospitals in China mainland have established emergency department, hardware configuration and staff status were gradually standardized. But most of the emergency departments mainly provide service to adult patients and pediatric emergency medicine lags behind. The purpose of this investigation was to understand the current situation and main problems of pediatric emergency in China mainland.   METHOD A questionnaire developed by the Subspecialty Group of Pediatrics, Chinese Society of Emergency Medicine and the Subspecialty Group of Emergency Medicine, Chinese Society of Pediatrics was e-mailed to the members of the above-mentioned two subspecialty groups. The contents of the questionnaire included 46 items which were divided into 5 categories: the general situation of the hospital, the pediatric emergency setting and composition, key equipments and techniques, staff status, training program and running data from 2011 to 2012.   RESULT Sixty-three questionnaires were delivered and 27 (42.9%) hospitals responded which located in 15 different provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions. Among the 27 hospitals, 10 (37.0%) had no pediatric resuscitation room; 25 (92.6%) had no equipments for cardiac output monitor and gastric lavage; 13 (48.1%) had no bedside fibrolaryngoscope or fiberbronchoscope; 5 (18.5%) had no blood gas analyzer; 4 (14.8%) without respirator, defibrillator, bedside radiography or ultrasonic equipment; 2 (7.4%) had no neonatal incubator; 9 (33.3%) could not do intraossous infusion. The average ratio of professional emergency pediatricians to all physicians was 43.5%. Twenty hospitals incompletely filled in the pediatric emergency running data.   CONCLUSION The main problems existing in pediatric emergency include: imperfect pediatric emergency settings; short of key equipment; key rescue techniques are not popularized, acute shortage of emergency pediatricians and inadequate monitoring and management of pediatric emergency. The major ways to solve the predicament in pediatric emergency should include: the policy and financial support from national and local government; training pediatricians, especially urgent training of emergency pediatricians; improving pediatric emergency development and management.
OBJECTIVE Physicians typically respond to roughly half of the clinical decision support prompts they receive. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that selectively highlighting prompts in yellow would improve physicians' responsiveness.   METHODS We conducted a randomized controlled trial using the Child Health Improvement Through Computer Automation clinical decision support system in 4 urban primary care pediatric clinics. Half of a set of electronic prompts of interest was highlighted in yellow when presented to physicians in 2 clinics. The other half of the prompts was highlighted when presented to physicians in the other 2 clinics. Analyses compared physician responsiveness to the 2 randomized sets of prompts: highlighted versus not highlighted. Additionally, several prompts deemed high priority were highlighted during the entire study period in all clinics. Physician response rates to the high-priority highlighted prompts were compared to response rates for those prompts from the year before the study period, when they were not highlighted.   RESULTS Physicians did not respond to prompts that were highlighted at higher rates than prompts that were not highlighted (62% and 61%, respectively; odds ratio 1.056, P혻=혻.259, NS). Similarly, physicians were no more likely to respond to high-priority prompts that were highlighted compared to the year before, when the prompts were not highlighted (59% and 59%, respectively, (2)혻=혻0.067, P혻=혻.796, NS).   CONCLUSIONS Highlighting reminder prompts did not increase physicians' responsiveness. We provide possible explanations why highlighting did not improve responsiveness and offer alternative strategies to increasing physician responsiveness to prompts.
OBJECTIVE We wanted to primarily examine the knowledge, attitudes and behaviour of parents and health workers (community nurses and paediatricians) regarding child injuries in order to understand the essence of the problem and to find out the most common misconceptions.   METHODS Respondents were tested through an anonymous, self-administered questionnaire and all p values below 0.05 were considered significant.   RESULTS Of all respondents, paediatricians answered accurately most of the questions considering knowledge than the other groups. More than 90% of respondents, in all groups, identified correct answers to 10 questions about attitudes towards child injury prevention and safety promotion.   CONCLUSION This study, which shows the current level of knowledge, attitudes and behaviour patterns of parents and health professionals in Croatia, could help in the preparation of appropriate prevention programmes.
This policy statement is an update of the American Academy of Pediatrics policy statement 'Legalization of Marijuana: Potential Impact on Youth,' published in 2004. Pediatricians have special expertise in the care of children and adolescents and may be called on to advise legislators about the potential impact of changes in the legal status of marijuana on adolescents. Parents also may look to pediatricians for advice as they consider whether to support state-level initiatives that propose to legalize the use of marijuana for medical and nonmedical purposes or to decriminalize the possession of small amounts of marijuana. This policy statement provides the position of the American Academy of Pediatrics on the issue of marijuana legalization. The accompanying technical report reviews what is currently known about the relationships of marijuana use with health and the developing brain and the legal status of marijuana and adolescents' use of marijuana to better understand how change in legal status might influence the degree of marijuana use by adolescents in the future.
This technical report updates the 2004 American Academy of Pediatrics technical report on the legalization of marijuana. Current epidemiology of marijuana use is presented, as are definitions and biology of marijuana compounds, side effects of marijuana use, and effects of use on adolescent brain development. Issues concerning medical marijuana specifically are also addressed. Concerning legalization of marijuana, 4 different approaches in the United States are discussed: legalization of marijuana solely for medical purposes, decriminalization of recreational use of marijuana, legalization of recreational use of marijuana, and criminal prosecution of recreational (and medical) use of marijuana. These approaches are compared, and the latest available data are presented to aid in forming public policy. The effects on youth of criminal penalties for marijuana use and possession are also addressed, as are the effects or potential effects of the other 3 policy approaches on adolescent marijuana use. Recommendations are included in the accompanying policy statement.
UNLABELLED Behavioural decision-making theories provide insights into how people make choices under conditions of uncertainty. However, few have been studied in paediatrics. This study introduces these theories, reviews current research and makes recommendations for their application within the context of shared decision-making.   CONCLUSION As parents are expected to share decision-making in paediatrics, it is critical that the fields of behavioural economics, communication and decision sciences merge with paediatric clinical ethics to optimise decision-making.
BACKGROUND Paediatric musculoskeletal (pMSK) disorders are common in clinical practice, but training in their recognition and management is suboptimal at both undergraduate and postgraduate level. Exposure to pMSK conditions is variable in GP training, and there is no standardised curriculum for what GPs should know about pMSK medicine.   AIM To attain expert agreement on the gold standard of pMSK skills and knowledge required at completion of GP training.   DESIGN AND SETTING Modified Delphi process followed by consensus group meeting and focus groups.   METHODS Two iterative rounds of Delphi process conducted by email, followed by a face-to-face meeting of stakeholders. Items with >80% agreement included in final curriculum statement. Member checking by GPs conducted through focus group meetings.   RESULTS A curriculum covered by 12 overarching statements was developed, with positive feedback from GP educators on the feasibility of delivering the curriculum and usefulness of the items.   CONCLUSION The introduction of expert-derived learning needs to the GP curriculum on pMSK medicine should help with improving the recognition and management of children with MSK disorders.
In pediatric cardiac surgery, there is a substantial gap between published recommendations or guidelines for blood product use and clinical practice. The drawbacks of blood transfusion are well acknowledged though. The aim of this paper is to present the rationale for packed red blood cells, fresh frozen plasma (FFP), and platelets used in pediatric patients. Blood hemoglobin level is the current trigger used for packed red blood cells transfusion, though commonly admitted to be suboptimal. An increase in hemoglobin level is likely to be associated with an increase in blood oxygen content and blood oxygen delivery. However, above a critical level of hemoglobin, normovolemic anemia is well tolerated, and any increase in hemoglobin will fail to increase oxygen consumption and therefore to improve end-organ oxygen supply. FFP is one way to address the coagulation factors deficiency induced by hemodilution, consumption, or hepatic insufficiency. The volume needed to increase these factors is not negligible. To avoid dilution and/or fluid overload, the use of clotting factor concentrate is recommended. The same remark can be made regarding the treatment of antithrombin III deficiency. Platelets infusion should be restricted to bleeding patients with thrombocytopenia and without surgical bleeding. In clinical studies, the prevention of bleeding through prophylactic infusion of platelets proved to be useless. Optimizing the use of blood products (avoiding overuse, underuse, and inappropriate use) is a challenging task in pediatric cardiac surgery. Data or guidelines cannot replace clinical judgment and the decision to transfuse is left to individual discretion, but the medical community needs to optimize its transfusion practice, otherwise policy-makers without similar expertise may step in to regulate the use of blood products.
The purpose of this article was to establish psychometric validity evidence for competency assessment instruments and to evaluate the impact of 2 forms of training on the abilities of clinicians to perform neonatal intubation. To inform the development of assessment instruments, we conducted comprehensive task analyses including each performance domain associated with neonatal intubation. Expert review confirmed content validity. Construct validity was established using the instruments to differentiate between the intubation performance abilities of practitioners (N = 294) with variable experience (novice through expert). Training outcomes were evaluated using a quasi-experimental design to evaluate performance differences between 294 subjects randomly assigned to 1 of 2 training groups. The training intervention followed American Heart Association Pediatric Advanced Life Support and Neonatal Resuscitation Program protocols with hands-on practice using either (1) live feline or (2) simulated feline models. Performance assessment data were captured before and directly following the training. All data were analyzed using analysis of variance with repeated measures and statistical significance set at P < .05. Content validity, reliability, and consistency evidence were established for each assessment instrument. Construct validity for each assessment instrument was supported by significantly higher scores for subjects with greater levels of experience, as compared with those with less experience (P = .000). Overall, subjects performed significantly better in each assessment domain, following the training intervention (P = .000). After controlling for experience level, there were no significant differences among the cognitive, performance, and self-efficacy outcomes between clinicians trained with live animal model or simulator model. Analysis of retention scores showed that simulator trained subjects had significantly higher performance scores after 18 weeks (P = .01) and 52 weeks (P = .001) and cognitive scores after 52 weeks (P = .001). The results of this study demonstrate the feasibility of using valid, reliable assessment instruments to assess clinician competency and self-efficacy in the performance of neonatal intubation. We demonstrated the relative equivalency of live animal and simulation-based models as tools to support acquisition of neonatal intubation skills. Retention of performance abilities was greater for subjects trained using the simulator, likely because it afforded greater opportunity for repeated practice. Outcomes in each assessment area were influenced by the previous intubation experience of participants. This suggests that neonatal intubation training programs could be tailored to the level of provider experience to make efficient use of time and educational resources. Future research focusing on the uses of assessment in the applied clinical environment, as well as identification of optimal training cycles for performance retention, is merited.
BACKGROUND The intrauterine device (IUD) is a highly effective contraceptive, yet not all primary care providers (PCPs) counsel adolescents about IUDs. We sought to describe PCPs' frequency of counseling adolescents about IUDs and identify whether different factors are associated with frequent counseling by pediatricians compared with family physicians and gynecologists.   METHODS Surveyed PCPs affiliated with a Bronx, New York academic institution.   MAIN OUTCOME Frequent counseling of female adolescents about IUDs.   RESULTS Frequent counseling was lower in pediatricians compared with family physicians and gynecologists (35.8% and 81.6%, respectively, P < .001). Among all PCP types, frequent counseling was associated with feeling more competent counseling and managing expected IUD side effects (P < .001). Other significant variables included inserting IUDs themselves (P < .001, family physicians and gynecologists) or having access to an inserter in their office (P = .04, pediatricians).   CONCLUSIONS Correlates of frequent IUD counseling differed according to PCP specialty. Our results suggest that interventions to increase IUD counseling should focus on improving PCPs' competency around counseling and side effect management as well as increasing access to IUD inserters.
Non-communicable diseases are at the center of international consultation and there's a general agreement on saying that several issues need to be solved before implementing prevention strategies and intervention programs. A sound knowledge of all the factors involved in the epidemic spread of a disease is the first target that has to be achieved in order to provide governments and policy makers with the best evidence-based conclusions. Present data are still too weak to gather solid decisions. Lack of standardized methods, common definitions or coherence with real life performances results therefore in conclusions that oscillate from one statement to its contrary. From this perspective, pediatricians and general practitioners are of great importance, being the direct link between the scientific community and children, having therefore the possibility to act at the first phases of obesity development, forging the best possible knowledge in order to transform prevention in the best possible cure.
PURPOSE A qualitative study was conducted in 2013 with hospital psychiatrists working in two psychiatric hospitals of different regions in order to document the quality of work life of public hospital psychiatrists.   METHOD Semi-guided interviews were conducted with psychiatrists using an interview guide. Physicians were randomized according to health institution, age, gender and adult or paediatric psychiatry speciality. Data were analysed with the Alceste software and interpreted.   RESULTS Sixteen psychiatrists were interviewed. Four themes, composed of sub-themes, were highlighted. The first them concerned medical and social patient care, with the child's social and family environment, structural constraints and interactions with the care network. The second them concerned quality of care with the training of healthcare workers and the relational dimension. The third them concerned working in the public hospital system with the role of the 'physician-administrator', loss of the meaning of work and job satisfaction. The last theme refers to the specificity of working in psychiatry with forensic aspects and violence issues.   CONCLUSION This study suggests that psychiatrists are globally satisfied with their jobs. The main factors to be improved are working time organization to allow more time to listen to the patient, interprofessional exchanges and paramedical staff training. These data should be assessed by means of a quantitative study.
INTRODUCTION Although childhood autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) has been extensively investigated in the West, data on AIH in the East is lacking. We aimed to investigate AIH's clinical, biochemical and histological features, as well as its outcomes, in one of Singapore's two major paediatric units.   METHODS This was a retrospective study of children diagnosed with AIH in the paediatric unit of National University Hospital, Singapore, over the last 12 years. Children with de novo AIH after liver transplantation were excluded. The demographic and clinical features of the patients, and their laboratory, treatment and clinical outcomes were reviewed.   RESULTS This study comprised ten patients (six females, four males), with a median age of 5.1 (range 2.1-13.8) years at diagnosis. Five patients had inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Seven patients had type 1 AIH, and three had autoimmune sclerosing cholangitis (ASC) and IBD; none had type 2 AIH. The median level of aspartate aminotransferase at diagnosis was 183 (range 45-2,649) U/L. Prednisolone 1 mg/kg/day was prescribed at diagnosis for eight patients. Two patients were lost to follow-up and were treated symptomatically when they re-presented with end-stage liver disease. Azathioprine or mycophenolate mofetil was prescribed after 3-7 months of treatment. Normalisation of aminotransferase levels took an average of 5.3 (range 1-39) months.   CONCLUSION AIH is a rare but important cause of liver pathology. Children in this region with elevated aminotransferases or unexplained hepatomegaly should be screened for AIH.
The objective of this work is to demonstrate the potential time and labor savings that may result from increased use of combination vaccinations. The study (GSK study identifier: HO-12-4735) was a model developed to evaluate the efficiency of the pediatric vaccine schedule, using time and motion studies. The model considered vaccination time and the associated labor costs, but vaccination acquisition costs were not considered. We also did not consider any efficacy or safety differences between formulations. The model inputs were supported by a targeted literature review. The reference year for the model was 2012. The most efficient vaccination program using currently available vaccines was predicted to reduce costs through a combination of fewer injections (62%) and less time per vaccination (38%). The most versus the least efficient vaccine program was predicted to result in a 47% reduction in vaccination time and a 42% reduction in labor and supply costs. The estimated administration cost saving with the most versus the least efficient program was estimated to be nearly US $45 million. If hypothetical 6- or 7-valent vaccines are developed using the already most efficient schedule by adding additional antigens (pneumococcal conjugate vaccine and Haemophilus influenzae type b) to the most efficient 5-valent vaccine, the savings are predicted to be even greater. Combination vaccinations reduce the time burden of the childhood immunization schedule and could create the potential to improve vaccination uptake and compliance as a result of fewer required injections.
The process of navigating through the modern American health care system is becoming progressively challenging. The range of tasks being asked of patients in the digital age is vast and complex and includes completing intricate insurance applications, signing complex consent forms, and translating medical data and prescription medication directions. Nearly 9 out of 10 adults have difficulty using the everyday health information that is routinely offered by medical providers. Mounting evidence now supports a growing awareness that general health literacy is the greatest individual factor affecting a person's health status.
Clinical research studies in children are classified by risk into three major categories. These are as follows: a) minimal risk studies, b) more than minimal risk studies but with benefit, and c) studies with minor increase over minimal risk but with no benefit. Pediatric Phase I oncology trials, which are conducted in a highly vulnerable population of severely ill children with cancer, are designed to establish safety and to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), as well as establish dose limiting toxicity (DLT). These types of studies can be associated with significant risk. The research design of such high- risk studies, which comprise short-term treatments with varying doses, is generally not associated with any clinical benefit. Classification of the research category in these pediatric studies poses a special problem for the Institutional Review Board (IRB) with major implications for the consenting process. The challenges associated with the classification of such studies are discussed in this article.
BACKGROUND Drug resistance development in the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected pediatric population in the United States can impact long-term antiretroviral therapy (ART) efficacy. Limited formularies and adherence constraints in children jeopardize lifelong-needed ART.   METHODS We examined treatment failure, drug resistance, and their correlates in ART-naive and ART-experienced children attending the pediatric HIV clinic in Rhode Island between 1991 and 2012. Pol sequences were obtained for phylogenetic, subtype, and resistance analyses. Associations between selected covariates and virologic failure and resistance were evaluated using generalized additive models and Fisher exact tests.   RESULTS Data were available for all 56 clinic-attending children. At diagnosis, 33% were aged <1 year, 31% aged 1-4 years, and 37% aged  5 years; 54% were male, 73% black or Hispanic, 55% US-born, 20% refugees, and 64% perinatally infected. Of 44 ART-experienced children, 57% had virologic failure, most never virologically suppressed. Failure was associated with missed appointments (P = .05) and missed doses (P < .01). Of 40 children with available genotypes, 35% were infected with non-B subtypes; 6% of ART-naive children had resistance; and 73% of ART-experienced children had  1 major mutation: (16% conferring triple-class, 47% dual-class, and 37% single-class resistance). An epidemiologically confirmed resistance transmission from a perinatally infected teenage male to a newly infected teenage female was demonstrated.   CONCLUSIONS We report high HIV type 1 diversity, extensive drug resistance among ART-experienced children, and horizontal transmission of resistance in the Rh ode Island pediatric HIV clinic. As HIV-infected children mature into adulthood, close monitoring of ART, adherence, and diagnosis disclosure are essential to optimize patient care.
India is a signatory to UN Convention on Child Rights but the allocation of funds and interventions to address health problems have been insufficient. A rights-based rather than a welfare approach is needed to realize child rights, of which health and education are crucial. The health needs of the newborn (survival), infant (vaccinations, nutrition) and preschool child (infections, development) require particular attention. Health care delivery systems should be made fully functional, programs properly implemented, and accountability ensured at all levels. Basic curative services must be provided free for all children. Functional health literacy should be provided to the underprivileged.
The purpose of medical education at all levels is to prepare physicians with the knowledge and comprehensive skills, required to deliver safe and effective patient care. The traditional 'apprentice' learning model in medical education is undergoing a pedagogical shift to a 'simulation-based' learning model. Experiential learning, deliberate practice and the ability to provide immediate feedback are the primary advantages of simulation-based medical education. It is an effective way to develop new skills, identify knowledge gaps, reduce medical errors, and maintain infrequently used clinical skills even among experienced clinical teams, with the overall goal of improving patient care. Although simulation cannot replace clinical exposure as a form of experiential learning, it promotes learning without compromising patient safety. This new paradigm shift is revolutionizing medical education in the Western world. It is time that the developing countries embrace this new pedagogical shift.
JUSTIFICATION The need to revise Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP) growth charts for 5- to 18-year-old Indian children and adolescents was felt as India is in nutrition transition and previous IAP charts are based on data which are over two decades old.   PROCESS The Growth Chart Committee was formed by IAP in January 2014 to design revised growth charts. Consultative meeting was held in November 2014 in Mumbai. Studies performed on Indian children's growth, nutritional assessment and anthropometry from upper and middle socioeconomic classes in last decade were identified. Committee contacted 13 study groups; total number of children in the age group of 5 to 18 years were 87022 (54086 boys). Data from fourteen cities (Agartala, Ahmadabad, Chandigarh, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Kochi, Kolkata, Madurai, Mumbai, Mysore, Pune, Raipur and Surat) in India were collated. Data of children with weight for height Z scores >2 SD were removed from analyses. Data on 33148 children (18170 males, 14978 females) were used to construct growth charts using Cole's LMS method.   OBJECTIVE To construct revised IAP growth charts for 5-18 year old Indian children based on collated national data from published studies performed on apparently healthy children and adolescents in the last 10 years.   RECOMMENDATIONS The IAP growth chart committee recommends these revised growth charts for height, weight and body mass index (BMI) for assessment of growth of 5-18 year old Indian children to replace the previous IAP charts; rest of the recommendations for monitoring height and weight remain as per the IAP guidelines published in 2007. To define overweight and obesity in children from 5-18 years of age, adult equivalent of 23 and 27 cut-offs presented in BMI charts may be used. IAP recommends use of WHO standards for growth assessment of children below 5 years of age.
The modern paediatric surgeon needs to be competent in multiple domains that extend well beyond their clinical and technical expertise. This article, based on the Journal of Pediatric Surgery Lecture at the BAPS Congress (2014), explores some of these less well understood responsibilities and obligations, including professionalism, leadership, effective clinical teaching, and research. The consequence of falling short in these areas includes risks to our profession as a whole as well as compromising our ability to provide our patients with the best clinical care. Paediatric surgeons have a responsibility to influence the configuration of services to improve the quality of care and equity of access to specialist services for all children in their region. Evidence presented shows how a well-organised and funded regional paediatric surgical service allows children to receive quality treatment closer to home and is reflected in better clinical outcomes, less unnecessary surgery, and fewer complications. A paradigm for support to emerging countries as they increase the capacity and infrastructure of their paediatric surgical services is proposed. The way we judge ourselves and others should relate to our performance across the full scope of roles that a responsible and committed paediatric surgeon is expected to display.
The Hugh Greenwood Lecture acknowledges the extremely generous support from Mr Greenwood that has enabled the BAPS to establish funds to advance paediatric surgical training in developing countries. In this Inaugural Lecture, Dr. Sekabira, the first Hugh Greenwood Fellow, describes the influence that this has had on his career and reviews the state of paediatric surgery in Uganda.
AIM Pyloric stenosis was first reported in 1717 and was treatable from the start of the 1900s. Our hospital opened in 1860. In this study we report the historical account of the management of pyloric stenosis in Edinburgh from 1910 to 2013.   METHOD Historic discharge summaries, theatre records, and distinguished surgeons' operation and lecture notes dating back to 1910 with regard to pyloric stenosis were identified and reviewed. We present this history and compare our contemporary data.   RESULTS In February 1911, Harold Styles performed a pyloromyotomy, but did not report it at the time. However, the record of this operation and date were later published by Mason Brown in 1956. For the period 1926-1936, we report the management of 7 patients, of which only 3 survived. For the period 1947-1956, 515 patients were treated, with a mortality rate of 4.08%. Our current series for 1999-2012 has a mortality rate of zero and complication rate of 5.3%.   CONCLUSIONS During the period 1910 to present day in Edinburgh, pyloric stenosis has gone from being medically managed with bad outcomes to a condition with 100% survival. The only surgical advance has been the development of the Rammstedt pyloromyotomy. Of interest we document that a pyloromyotomy was performed here in February 1910. The improved outcome is mainly due to better understanding of the physiological disturbance in pyloric stenosis and advances in anaesthetics and microbiology.
The Quality Working Group of the Spanish Society of Pediatric Emergencies (SEUP) presents an update of the diagnostic coding list. The original list was prepared and published in Anales de Pediatr챠a in 2000, being based on the International Coding system ICD-9-CM current at that time. Following the same methodology used at that time and based on the 2014 edition of the ICD-9-CM, 35 new codes have been added to the list, 15 have been updated, and a list of the most frequent references to trauma diagnoses in pediatrics have been provided. In the current list of diagnoses, SEUP reflects the significant changes that have taken place in Pediatric Emergency Services in the last decade.
OBJECTIVE To describe the profile of inpatient consultations seen in department of pediatric dermatology at a tertiary care children's hospital.   METHODS The authors performed a retrospective review of all pediatric dermatology inpatient consultation data from medical record section over a period of 42혻mo from January 2010 through June 2013. All children 18혻y and below were included in the study.   RESULTS A total of 486 inpatient consultation services were given by pediatric dermatology department. About 124 (25.5혻%) of consultations were in the age group of infancy followed by 103 (21.1혻%) consultations in the school going age children. Most frequent consultation request was from general pediatrics (49.4혻%) followed by pediatric intensive care (37.9혻%). The most common diagnostic categories included cutaneous infection (115, 23.7혻%), emergency skin conditions (62, 12.8혻%), genodermatosis (58, 11.9혻%) and skin disorders secondary to systemic illness (55, 11.3혻%).   CONCLUSIONS This study highlights the spectrum of conditions that clinicians must be aware that can be seen in general pediatric wards and intensive care unit. This study also highlights the role of pediatric dermatologist in giving care to hospitalized children.
The initiation and development of pediatric anesthesia and intensive care have much in common in the Scandinavian countries. The five countries had to initiate close relations and cooperation in all medical disciplines. The pediatric anesthesia subspecialty took its first steps after the Second World War. Relations for training and exchange of experiences between Scandinavian countries with centers in Europe and the USA were a prerequisite for development. Specialized pediatric practice was not a full-time position until during the 1950s, when the first pediatric anesthesia positions were created. Scandinavian anesthesia developed slowly. In contrast, Scandinavia pioneered both adult and certainly pediatric intensive care. The pioneers were heavily involved in the teaching and training of anesthetists and nurses. This was necessary to manage the rapidly increasing work. The polio epidemics during the 1950s initiated a combination of clinical development and technical innovations. Blood gas analyses technology and interpretation in combination with improved positive pressure ventilators were developed in Scandinavia contributing to general and pediatric anesthesia and intensive care practice. Scandinavian specialist training and accreditation includes both anesthesia and intensive care. Although pediatric anesthesia/intensive care is not a separate specialty, an 'informal accreditation' for a specialist position is obtained after training. The pleasure of working in a relatively small group of devoted colleagues and staff has persisted from the pioneering years. It is still one of the most inspiring and pleasant gifts for those working in this demanding specialty.
Primary health care for children in Croatia are mostly provided by primary pediatricians (PP) in the urban and by family doctors in rural areas. During past decades, as apart of health care reforms, primary pediatric care experiences several changes. This study was undertaken in order to investigate the trends in organizational structure and functioning of the PPs, based on routinely collected data from Croatian Health Service Yearbooks, 1995 to 2012. The results have consistently shown a shortage of PPs in Croatia. The shortage obviously affects the average number of children per PP; number increased from 994 in 1995, to 1556 children in 2010, which was far above the standard. The shortage of PPs is also related to the high number of visits (30 to 40) per PP and per working day. The obtained results clearly show only the trends, therefore further research is needed for a full understanding of the PHC for pre-school children.
In Croatia, primary health care for pre-school children is organized by pediatricians (PPs) for children in urban and family doctors (FDs) for children in remote areas. This study was undertaken with the aim to determine the trends in preventive activities (general, targeting, and control check-ups and total visits) in both services (FDs, PPs), between 1995 and 2012. The main adapt source was the Croatian Health Service Yearbooks. According to the results, the number and the structure of preventive activities performed by PPs are relatively stable, while those performed by FDs decreased rapidly, primarily because the number of children under the care decreased. It is probable in relations with the regulations to direct the children to PPs and not to the FDs. The average numbers of all preventive activities are under the optimum. There are many similarities between FDs' and PPs', some activities were frequently performed by FDs and others by PPs'.
Primary health care for pre-school children in Croatia is provided by the primary pediatricians (PPs) in urban, or family doctors (FDs) in rural areas. The main aim of the study was to determine the trends in morbidity as recorded by FDs, and those recorded by PPs, from 1995-2012. The study was based on the routinely collected, national statistics data from the Croatian Health Service Yearbooks. The results obtained clearly indicate that there are no differences in the morbidity patterns registered by FDs and PPs. The average annual number of diagnoses per child, and the most frequently registered diagnostic groups were almost the same for both services. The number of children under the particular service was the only difference, with a decreasing trend in family medicine and an increasing in pediatric service. The national routine health statistics system does not provide enough information to permit a deeper analysis of the childhood morbidity in two services.
Information is an important need in order for parents to be empowered to face their child's cancer condition. To explore the information needs of parents of children with cancer treated at an academic hospital in the Gauteng Province of South Africa, a descriptive phenomenological design was selected. The study setting was an academic hospital in Johannesburg and purposive sampling included 13 parents who spoke English and were willing to participate in the study. Qualitative interviews were conducted and thematic analyses were used to analyze the data. Four themes emerged from the data: the shock of the diagnosis, information needs about the disease and investigations, living with the treatment, and communication of the information. There was no consensus on which information was needed at specific points in time and parents had different opinions on how information should be made available to them. Continuous assessment allowing individualized information, according to the preference of the parents in the language of choice, could possibly meet their information needs.
Benign paroxysmal torticollis is probably an under-diagnosed condition of infancy. It is a self-limiting disorder characterised by periods of unusual, sustained posture of the head and neck, during which the head tilts to one side. Episodes are often accompanied by marked autonomic features, irritability, ataxia, apathy and drowsiness. They last several hours to a few days and are often recurring every few weeks. They subside within the pre-school years; however, during later childhood, there is a tendency to develop migraine. Three cases of benign paroxysmal torticollis are presented and are compared with cases in the literature. A telephone survey has been conducted to determine what is the general awareness of paediatricians of this condition in Cyprus. Eighty-two paediatricians were randomly selected out of 235 paediatricians. All of them agreed to participate. Our cases revealed that benign paroxysmal torticollis may coexist with other problems during infancy. The telephone survey showed that only two out of eighty-two (2.4%) of the paediatricians are aware of the condition, and none of them was confident regarding the management. Our telephone survey clearly shows that Cypriot paediatricians are not familiar with benign paroxysmal torticollis in infancy which is a benign, self-limiting disorder. It is essential to recognise the condition and to reassure parents of its benign course and not to be misdiagnosed for other disorders, such as epileptic seizures. We have shown again that benign paroxysmal torticollis in infancy may coexist with motor delay and hearing problems.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE This study is a qualitative analysis examining caregivers' expectations for pediatricians with regard to behavioral health care.   METHODS Fifty-five parents/caregivers of children seen in an urban primary care clinic participated in semistructured interviews. Participants were parents or guardians of children between the ages of 2 and 17 years, referred from the pediatric clinic to the mental health center. Interviews were analyzed using grounded theory methods.   RESULTS Pertinent themes were the following: expected range of care, components of an effective primary care provider (PCP) relationship, action of the PCP, and parent reaction to PCP intervention. Forty-seven percent of caregivers saw the PCP role as strictly for physical health care; 53% expected the PCP to have a role in both physical and behavioral health. Responses were overwhelmingly positive from caregivers when the PCP asked about or conducted a behavioral health intervention.   CONCLUSION Caregivers did not consistently expect but responded positively to PCPs engaging around behavioral health concerns.
PURPOSE In child-parent agreement studies in the field of paediatric health-related quality of life (HRQoL), little attention has been paid to the effect of gender in parental proxy rating of children's HRQoL. This study aims to test the potential interchangeability of parent dyads in reporting children's HRQoL on both item and scale levels of the PedsQL 4.0 instrument, using the approach of differential item functioning (DIF).   METHODS The PedsQL 4.0 Generic Core Scales were completed by 576 father-and-mother dyads. A polytomous item response theory model, graded response model, was used to detect DIF across fathers and mothers.   RESULT Assessment at item level showed that fathers and mothers perceived the meaning of items of the PedsQL 4.0 consistently. Regarding the scale level, a moderate to high level of agreement was observed between mothers' and fathers' reports on all similar subscales. Although the significant mean score differences in total, physical and emotional functioning indicated that fathers gave higher scores to their children, the small effect size implied that this difference may not be practically meaningful.   CONCLUSION Our findings revealed that discrepancy in parent dyads in rating children's HRQoL is a 'real' difference and not an artefact due to measurement non-invariance. Fathers were seen to have slightly different insights into their children, especially for emotional functioning, but overall the results were not all that different. This suggests that paternal proxy-reports can be included in studies along with maternal proxy-reports, and the two may be combined when looking at parent-child agreement. Parent-child agreement studies in Iran are not affected by parents' gender, and therefore, researchers may rely on the assumption of the interchangeability of fathers and mothers in these studies.
Patents and other forms of intellectual property protection play essential roles in encouraging innovation in biopharmaceuticals. As part of the '21st Century Cures' initiative, Congress is reviewing the policy mechanisms designed to accelerate the discovery, development, and delivery of new treatments. Debate continues about how best to balance patent and intellectual property incentives to encourage innovation, on the one hand, and generic utilization and price competition, on the other hand. We review the current framework for accomplishing these dual objectives and the important role of patents and regulatory exclusivity (together, the patent-based system), given the lengthy, costly, and risky biopharmaceutical research and development process. We summarize existing targeted incentives, such as for orphan drugs and neglected diseases, and we consider the pros and cons of proposed voluntary or mandatory alternatives to the patent-based system, such as prizes and government research and development contracting. We conclude that patents and regulatory exclusivity provisions are likely to remain the core approach to providing incentives for biopharmaceutical research and development. However, prizes and other voluntary supplements could play a useful role in addressing unmet needs and gaps in specific circumstances.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES Simulation-based medical education has become popular in postgraduate training for medical emergencies; however, the direct impact on learners' clinical performances during live critical events is unknown. Our goal was to evaluate the perceived impact of simulation-based education on pediatric emergencies by auditing pediatric residents immediately after involvement in actual emergency clinical events.   METHODS Weekly team-based pediatric simulation training for inpatient emergencies was implemented in an academic tertiary care hospital. Immediately after actual pediatric emergency events, each resident involved was audited regarding roles, performed tasks, and perceived effectiveness of earlier simulation-based education. The audit was performed by using a Likert scale.   RESULTS From September 2010 through August 2011, a total of 49 simulation sessions were held. During the same period, 27 pediatric emergency events occurred: 3 code events, 14 rapid response team activations, and 10 emergency transfers to the PICU. Forty-seven survey responses from 20 pediatric residents were obtained after the emergency clinical events. Fifty-three percent of residents felt well prepared, and 45% reported having experienced a similar simulation before the clinical event. A preceding similar simulation experience was perceived as helpful in improving clinical performance. Residents' confidence levels, however, did not differ significantly between those who reported having had a preceding similar simulation and those who had not (median of 4 vs median of 3; P=.16, Wilcoxon rank-sum test).   CONCLUSIONS A novel electronic survey was successfully piloted to measure residents' perceptions of simulation education compared with live critical events. Residents perceived that their experiences in earlier similar simulations positively affected their performances during emergencies.
Epilepsy surgery has become an accepted treatment for drug resistant epilepsy in infants and children. It has gained ground in India over the last decade. Certain epilepsy surgically remediable syndromes have been delineated and should be offered surgery earlier rather than later, especially if cognitive/behavioral development is being compromised. Advances in imaging, particularly in MRI has helped identify surgical candidates. Pre-surgical evaluation includes clinical assessment, structural and functional imaging, inter-ictal EEG, simultaneous video -EEG, with analysis of seizure semiology and ictal EEG and other optional investigations like neuropsychology and other newer imaging techniques. If data are concordant resective surgery is offered, keeping in mind preservation of eloquent cortical areas subserving motor, language and visual functions. In case of discordant data or non-lesional MRI, invasive EEG maybe useful using a two-stage approach. With multi-focal / generalized disease, palliative surgery like corpus callosotomy and vagal nerve stimulation maybe useful. A good outcome is seen in about 2/3rd of patients undergoing resective surgery with a low morbidity and mortality. This review outlines important learning aspects of pediatric epilepsy surgery for the general pediatrician.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES Diagnosis and treatment of pediatric mental, physical, and behavioral issues are essential for optimal growth and development. Our family medicine residency program implemented a change in our pediatric curriculum by incorporating aspects of Healthy Steps into well-child visits 1 day a week. This study was done to determine the impact on developmental referral rates after incorporating Healthy Steps.   METHODS We did a retrospective medical records review at a rural California family medicine residency clinic on children through 5 years of age receiving well-child care. We collected developmental referrals as documented in the chart and in a referral log for 1 year before the curriculum change and 3 years after implementation. This retrospective case-control study included a pre-intervention group (Pre) and two post-intervention groups, usual care control (UC) and Healthy Steps intervention (HS). The three groups were compared using Fisher's exact tests.   RESULTS Developmental referrals assessed by chart review were 0% (0/154) in Pre, 0.6% (1/159) in UC, and 5.4% (4/74) in HS groups. When assessed by referral logs, developmental referral rates were 1.2% (10/864) in Pre, 1.1% (14/1,251) in UC, and 9.9% (14/141) in HS groups. For both sources, the HS group had significantly higher referral rates than the other groups. There was no statistical difference in referrals between the Pre and UC groups.   CONCLUSIONS After incorporating aspects of Healthy Steps into our curriculum, developmental referrals rose significantly in the intervention group compared to pre-intervention. Referral rates did not change in the non-intervention control group.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES The I3 POP Collaborative's goal is to improve care of populations served by primary care residencies in North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia by dramatically improving patients' experience, quality of care, and cost-effectiveness. We examine residency baseline triple aim measures, compare with national benchmarks, and identify practice characteristics associated with data reporting.   METHODS We used a cross-sectional design, with 27 primary care residency programs caring for over 300,000 patients. Outcome measures were obtained via data pulls from electronic health records and practice management system submitted by residencies; they include quality measure sets for chronic illness and prevention, patient experience (usual provder continuity and time to third available), and utilization (emergency visits, hospitalizations, referrals, high-end radiology).   RESULTS Thirteen practices (48%) reported all required baseline measures. We found associations between data reporting ability with registry use (59% versus 0%) and having a faculty member involved in data management (69% versus 29%). Reported measures varied widely; examples include colorectal cancer screening (median: 61%, range: 28%--80%), provider continuity (median: 52%, range: 1%--68%), subspecialty referral rate (median: 24%, range: 10%--51%). Seventy percent of patient-centered medical homes (PCMH) recognized practices had usual provider continuity (UPC) > or = collaborative median versus 0% of non-PCMH recognized practices. Median data were similar to national comparisons for chronic disease measures, lower for prevention and better for utilization.   CONCLUSIONS Baseline triple aim data are highly variable among residencies, but residency care is comparable to available national standards. Registry use and faculty leadership in data management are critical success factors for assessing practice performance.
OBJECTIVES Using simulation-based mastery learning, residents can be trained to achieve a predefined performance standard in resuscitation. After mastery is achieved, performance degradation occurs over time. Prior investigations have shown performance retention of 12-14 months following intensive simulation-based mastery learning sessions. We sought to investigate the duration of mastery-level resuscitation performance retention after a single 1- to 2-hour simulation-based mastery learning session.   DESIGN Randomized, prospective trial.   SETTING Medical simulation laboratory.   SUBJECTS Convenience sample of 42 pediatric residents.   INTERVENTIONS Baseline resuscitation performance was determined on four standardized simulation scenarios. After determination of baseline performance, each resident repeated each scenario, as needed, until mastery-level performance was achieved. Residents were then randomized and retested 2, 4, or 6 months later. Statistical analysis on scores at baseline and retesting were used to determine performances changes from baseline and performance retention over time.   MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS Forty-two residents participated in the study (12 in 2 mo group, 14 in 4 mo group, and 16 in 6 mo group). At baseline, postgraduate year-3 residents performed better than postgraduate year-1 residents (p = 0.003). Overall performance on each of the four scenarios improved at retesting. The percent of residents maintaining mastery-level performance showed a significant linear decline (p = 0.039), with a drop at each retesting interval; 92% retained mastery at 2 months, 71% at 4 months, and 56% at 6 months. There was no difference in retention between postgraduate year-1, postgraduate year-2, and postgraduate year-3 residents (p = 0.14).   CONCLUSIONS Residents displayed significant improvements in resuscitation performance after a single simulation-based mastery learning session, but performance declined over time, with less than 60% retaining mastery-level performance at 6 months. Our results suggest that relatively frequent refresher training is needed after a single simulation-based mastery learning session. Additional research is needed to determine the duration of performance retention following any specific simulation-based mastery learning intervention.
Cardiology in the Young is devoted to cardiovascular issues affecting the young, and older patients with congenital heart disease, or with other cardiac diseases acquired during childhood. The journal serves the interests of all professionals concerned with these topics. By design, the journal is international and multidisciplinary in its approach, and members of the editorial board take an active role in its mission, helping to make it an indispensable reference for paediatric and congenital cardiac care. All aspects of paediatric and congenital cardiac care are covered within the journal. The content includes original articles, brief reports, editorials, reviews, and papers devoted to continuing professional development. High-quality colour figures are published on a regular basis, and without charge to the authors. Regular supplements are published containing the abstracts of the annual meetings of the Association for European Paediatric and Congenital Cardiology, along with other occasional supplements. These supplements are supplied free to subscribers. The vision of Cardiology in the Young is to use print and electronic media to improve paediatric and congenital cardiac care. The mission of Cardiology in the Young is to be a premier global journal for paediatric and congenital cardiac care - an essential journal that spans the domains of patient care, research, education, and advocacy, and also spans geographical, temporal, and subspeciality boundaries. Cardiology in the Young was officially launched in December, 1990. The late Lucio Parenzan was Editor-in-Chief from 1990 through Volume 4, Number 1, January 1994. Professor Robert Anderson and Giancarlo Crupi then shared the Editor-in-Chief position until the end of 1995. Then, from 1995 through 2007, Professor Robert Anderson served as the sole Editor-in-Chief of Cardiology in the Young . Edward Baker, MD, FRCP, FRCPCH, served as Editor-in-Chief of Cardiology in the Young from 2007 to 2013. In January, 2014, Jeffrey P. Jacobs, MD, FACS, FACC, FCCP, became Editor-in-Chief of Cardiology in the Young . Jeffrey P. Jacobs, MD, FACS, FACC, FCCP is Director of the Andrews/Daicoff Cardiovascular Program at Johns Hopkins All Children's Heart Institute and Professor of Cardiac Surgery in the Division of Cardiac Surgery of the Department of Surgery at Johns Hopkins University. He is also Surgical Director of the Heart Transplantation Program and Director of the Extracorporeal Life Support Program at Johns Hopkins All Children's Heart Institute. Dr Jacobs has been a cardiothoracic surgeon at All Children's Hospital since 1998.
The Florida Children's Medical Services (CMS) has a long-standing history of ensuring that providers of multiple paediatric subspecialties abide by the highest standards. The cardiac sub-committee has written quality standard documents that participating programmes must meet or exceed. These standards oversee paediatric cardiology services including surgery, catheterisations, and outpatient services. On April, 2012, the cardiac sub-committee decided to develop similar standards in paediatric electrophysiology. A task force was created and began this process. These standards include a catalogue of required and optional equipment, as well as staff and physician credentials. We sought to establish expectations of procedural numbers by practitioner and facility. The task force surveyed the members of the Pediatric and Congenital Electrophysiology Society. Finding no consensus, the task force is committed to generate the data by requiring that the CMS participating programmes enrol and submit data to the Multicenter Pediatric and Adult Congenital EP Quality (MAP-IT) Initiative. This manuscript details the work of the Florida CMS Paediatric Electrophysiology Task Force.
The Dreyfus and Bloom frameworks can help the great clinical teacher craft questions that are learner-centric and appropriately challenging.Employing strategies to ask the right questions in the right way can further add to the effectiveness of using questions as a valuable teaching,learning, and assessment tool.
Chronically ill children nowdays in developed countries are more prevalent than before, and thanks to modern therapeutic modalities more children are surviving into adulthood. Increased survival cannot be assumed to be associated with increased quality of life. With the chronically ill child holistic approach is important, which incorporates not only realisation of the highest possible standards in diagnostics and treatment, but also special care for disease prevention. All this is very important in so called integrative approach in the care of a chronically ill child, with the aim of achieving as high as possible quality of life and complete social integration. At the 14th Preventive Pediatrics Symposium, which took place in Skrad, June 1' 2013, from preventive standpoint, the following chronic childhood illnesses were discussed: attention deficit hyperactivity disorder--ADHD, migraine, thyroid gland diseases, leukemia, cystic fibrosis, chronic renal disease, chronic inflammatory liver disease, chronic inflammatory bowel disease, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, and chronic otitis media with effusion. It is emphasized that talking about a disease prevention, there are three levels of it--primary, second- ary and tertiary prevention: how to avoid occurrence of disease, how to diagnose and treat existent disease in early stages, before it causes significant morbidity, and finally how to reduce the negative impact of existent disease by restoring function and reducing disease-related complications--how to improve quality of life of children with chronic diseases. Quaternary prevention describes methods to mitigate or avoid results of unnecessary or excessive interventions of the health system. An important process is also transition of care from child-oriented to adult-oriented care. Adults with chronic health conditions should continue to be evaluated periodically for possible late consequences of their childhood illness and previ- ous medical treatments.
BACKGROUND Although healthcare administrative data are commonly used for traumatic brain injury (TBI) research, there is currently no consensus or consistency on the International Classification of Diseases Version 10 (ICD-10) codes used to define TBI among children and youth internationally. This study systematically reviewed the literature to explore the range of ICD-10 codes that are used to define TBI in this population. The identification of the range of ICD-10 codes to define this population in administrative data is crucial, as it has implications for policy, resource allocation, planning of healthcare services, and prevention strategies.   METHODS The databases MEDLINE, MEDLINE In-Process, Embase, PsychINFO, CINAHL, SPORTDiscus, and Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews were systematically searched. Grey literature was searched using Grey Matters and Google. Reference lists of included articles were also searched for relevant studies. Two reviewers independently screened all titles and abstracts using pre-defined inclusion and exclusion criteria. A full text screen was conducted on articles that met the first screen inclusion criteria. All full text articles that met the pre-defined inclusion criteria were included for analysis in this systematic review.   RESULTS A total of 1,326 publications were identified through the predetermined search strategy and 32 articles/reports met all eligibility criteria for inclusion in this review. Five articles specifically examined children and youth aged 19혻years or under with TBI. ICD-10 case definitions ranged from the broad injuries to the head codes (ICD-10혻S00 to S09) to concussion only (S06.0). There was overwhelming consensus on the inclusion of ICD-10 code S06, intracranial injury, while codes S00 (superficial injury of the head), S03 (dislocation, sprain, and strain of joints and ligaments of head), and S05 (injury of eye and orbit) were only used by articles that examined head injury, none of which specifically examined children and youth.   CONCLUSION This review provides evidence for discussion on how best to use ICD codes for different goals. This is an important first step in reaching an appropriate definition and can inform future work on reaching consensus on the ICD-10 codes to define TBI for this vulnerable population.
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES Malnutrition occurs frequently in hospitalized children. We aimed to assess whether a computerized system could lead to improved clinical practices in malnourished children.   SUBJECTS/METHODS Healthcare workers (242) from six departments in a pediatric university hospital participated in a cluster randomized trial, studying 1457 malnourished children hospitalized from September 2009 to August 2011. Following a baseline observational pre-intervention period, all departments were randomized into either intervention or control arms. A computerized malnutrition-screening system was implemented in the intervention group to automatically trigger a dietetic referral in real time. Furthermore, the nutrition support team conducted an awareness campaign with healthcare workers and a leadership-based strategy to reinforce the message during the entire study period. Adherence to practice guidelines (daily weights, investigation of etiology for malnutrition, management by a dietitian and application of refeeding protocols) was compared between pre- and post-intervention periods in both the intervention and trial arms.   RESULTS When compared with the pre-intervention period, the clinical practices were significantly improved within the intervention arm for every outcome (P<0.01), whereas remained unchanged in the control arm. In addition, during the post-intervention period, malnutrition etiology investigation by physicians (adjusted odds ratio (OR) of 4.4, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.7-11.8, P=0.003) and management by a dietitian (OR 2.7, 95% CI 1.0-6.9, P=0.046) occurred more frequently in the intervention clusters.   CONCLUSIONS Implementation of an electronic system to detect malnutrition in real time was associated with a rapid improvement in clinical practices for better care of hospitalized children.
The optimal management of pilonidal disease in the pediatric population is still debated. We conducted a retrospective review of patients 21 years old and younger who underwent surgical management for pilonidal disease between 2009 and 2013 at a single pediatric institution. Sixty patients (41.7% male) were included in the analysis, with a mean age of 15.0 years (range, 13-20). Twelve (20%) had a prior drainage procedure for pilonidal abscess before the definitive operative treatment. After excision to the presacral fascia, 36 (60%) had primary closure, 17 (28.3%) were left to heal by secondary intention, and 7 (11.7%) had flap closure. Overall recurrence rate was 41.7 per cent with 33.3 per cent in the primary, 58.8 per cent in the secondary, and 42.9 per cent in the flap group, respectively. Ten (16.7%) patients developed postoperative complications, which were similar among surgical groups, gender, and body mass index. The average length of stay was 0.67 (median 0, range, 0-5) days. Primary closure had the shortest length of stay (analysis of variance P = 0.04), and flap closure had no reoperations (analysis of variance P < 0.01). Pilonidal disease remains surgically challenging. Our data suggest that excision and primary closure is a better option in the pediatric population.
Heart valves are currently under thorough investigation in tissue engineering (TE) research. Mechanical and biological heart valve prostheses which are recently used have several shortcomings. While allogenic and xenogenic biological prostheses are related to graft rejection, degeneration and thrombosis, resulting in a high rate of reoperation. Mechanical prostheses on the other hand are based on metallic, carbon, and polymeric components, and require continuous treatment with anticoagulant, which result in adverse reactions, e.g. endocarditis and thromboembolic complications. Therefore, there has been efforts to synthesize bioartificial heart valve using bioengineering. The resulting product must be durable with appropriate mechanical properties, biocompatible, and have the ability to grow. Diseased heart valves replacement by surgery is now common, this enhances quality of life and survival for many patients. The center of attraction of recent methods in regenerative medicine are based on the restoration of pathologically altered tissue architectures by cells transplantation in combination with supportive scaffolds, and growth factors. We propose that nanofiber scaffold for paediatric Tissue Engineered Heart Valve (TEHV) will meet most of these requirements, particularly those related to somatic growth, in addition, as the nanofiber scaffold is eroded and new valve is formed, the valve develops in the child until adulthood.
OBJECTIVES The purpose of this study was to assess adverse events associated with diagnostic urethral catheterization (UC) in young children and to determine their impact on the patient and their family.   METHODS This was a prospective cohort study conducted in the emergency department of a tertiary-care pediatric hospital. All 3- to 24-month-old children with fever who had a diagnostic UC were eligible. Parents who consented to participate were contacted by phone within 7 to 10 days after the UC to answer a standardized questionnaire inquiring about complications. The primary outcome was the occurrence of an unfavourable event in the seven days following UC, defined as painful urination, genital pain, urinary retention, hematuria or secondary urinary tract infection. Secondary outcomes included the need for further medical care and the need for parents to miss school or work.   RESULTS Of the 199 patients who completed the study, 41 (21%) reported a complication: painful urination in 19 (10%) children, genital pain in 16 (8%), urinary retention in 11 (6%), gross hematuria in 9 (5%), and secondary urinary tract infection in 1 (0.5%). Three (1%) parents reported the need for further medical care and three (1%) missed work. Two independent variables (male sex and age 12-23 months) were associated with a higher risk of adverse events.   CONCLUSIONS Urethral catheterization is associated with adverse events in 21% of young children in the week following the procedure. Accordingly, this procedure should be used judiciously in children, considering its potential to cause unfavourable events.
Long-term IS in transplant patients has significant morbidity, poorer quality of life, and substantial economic costs. TOL, defined as graft acceptance without functional impairment in the absence of IS, has been achieved in some pediatric LT recipients. Using mass cytometry, peripheral blood immunotyping was performed to characterize differences between tolerant patients and patients who are stable on single-agent IS. Single-cell mass cytometry was performed using blood samples from a single-center pediatric LT population of operationally tolerant patients to comprehensively characterize the immune cell populations in the tolerant state compared with patients on chronic low-dose IS. Specific T-cell populations of interest were confirmed by flow cytometry. This high-dimensional phenotypic analysis revealed distinct immunoprofiles between transplant populations as well as a CD4+ TOT (CD4+ CD5+ CD25+ CD38-/lo CD45RA) that correlates with tolerance in pediatric LT recipients. In TOL patients, the TOT was significantly increased as compared to patients stable on low levels of IS. This TOT cell was confirmed by flow cytometry and is distinct from classic Treg cells. These results demonstrate the power of mass cytometry to discover significant immune cell signatures that have diagnostic potential.
The off-label use of recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2 to promote bone healing in adults has significantly increased in recent years, while reports of recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2 application in children and adolescents are very rare. The aim of this study was to evaluate the safety of single and repetitive recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2 use in pediatric orthoapedics. Therefore we reviewed the medical records of 39 patients who had been treated with recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2 at our institution. Their mean age was 10.9 years. Recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2 was used in 17 patients for spine fusion, in 11 patients for the treatment of congenital pseudarthrosis of the tibia or tibial nonunion, in 5 patients for the management of femoral nonunion, in 5 patients for nonunions at other locations, and in 1 case for tibial shortening. Special attention was paid to identify all adverse events that may be attributed to recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2 use, including local inflammatory reactions, allergic reactions, systemic toxicity, excessive wound swelling, hematoma, compartment syndrome, infection, heterotopic ossification, excessive bone growth, carcinogenicity, and the consequences of repeated applications of recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2. Follow-up was a mean of 39 months. Forty-six operations with application of rhBMP-2 were performed. Complications that may be due to application of recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2 were seen after 18 operations including swelling, increase in temperature, wound secretion, redness and hyperthermia. We consider the three cases of necessary revisions, one due to hematoma, one due to development of a compartment syndrome, and one due to deep infection, to be the only complications related to the use of recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2. In conclusion, we found few complications attributable to application of recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2 in pediatric patients.
CONTEXT -Autopsy is an important tool for quality assurance and improving patient care. Fetal, perinatal, and pediatric autopsies have the additional benefit of identifying conditions that may have increased risk of recurrence. In contrast to adult autopsies, special collections and testing are frequently used. Pathologist effort in fetal, perinatal, and pediatric autopsy has not been well documented.   OBJECTIVE -To prospectively quantify pathologist time required to complete fetal, perinatal, and pediatric autopsies, and to gather information on special studies and whether or not a cause of death was identified.   DESIGN -The Society for Pediatric Pathology Practice Committee disseminated a survey to pathologists to complete for each autopsy performed. Surveys recorded age/gestation, time spent on chart review, prosection, and microscopy, special testing performed, time spent on a discussion or presentation of findings, and whether a cause of death was found.   RESULTS -We report results of 351 surveys. Pathologist effort in fetal cases was, on average, 5.9 hours; in perinatal cases, 9.8 hours; and in pediatric cases, 15.4 hours. Reflecting complexity, a total of 603 collections for ancillary studies were performed, most commonly karyotype, frozen tissue, and microbiology cultures. A cause of death was identified in 295 of 351 cases (84%). Most cases were presented at conferences.   CONCLUSIONS -Fetal, perinatal, and pediatric autopsies are time intensive and frequently complex. They have high clinical value, guiding risk assessment and reproductive decision-making by families. Understanding the time contribution by pathologists allows departments and hospitals to predict staffing.
AIM This 2015 study investigated whether Lebanese paediatricians diagnosed and managed gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GERD) in infants and children in accordance with the 2009 guidelines from the North American and European Societies for Paediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition.   METHODS Paediatricians members of the Lebanese Order of Physicians with updated email addresses were invited to complete a web-based survey between September and November 2015, to assess their knowledge and management of GERD.   RESULTS Responses were received from 114 of the 543 paediatricians, and 96 were analysed. Only two respondents complied fully with the international guidelines. The majority diagnosed GERD in infants based solely on their medical history and examination. Moreover, nearly two-thirds of the respondents would start an empiric trial with acid suppression. Around half of the respondents considered proton pump inhibitors to be the mainstay of GERD treatment.   CONCLUSION This was the first Lebanese study that surveyed the management of paediatric GERD. Only 2.1% of the paediatricians followed the guidelines on the evidence-based management of GERD. This highlights the need for studies to assess barriers to guideline implementation and the development of new guidelines accounting for regional factors, mainly the cost of investigations and prevalence of medical insurance.
There has been growing interest in the use of imaging modalities in pediatric rheumatology for the past 15혻years. Nowadays, highly sensitive imaging techniques can be used to detect early stages of pediatric rheumatic diseases in addition to the physical examination. Magnetic resonance imaging and musculoskeletal ultrasound play the most important role. Moreover, these two techniques are of great value in differential diagnostics and therapy monitoring. The use of imaging methods with a high radiation exposure could therefore be greatly reduced over the last decade.
The focus on drug delivery for the pediatric population has been steadily increasing in the last decades. In terms of developing in vitro models simulating characteristics of the targeted pediatric population, with the purpose of predicting drug product performance after oral administration, it is important to simulate the gastro-intestinal conditions and processes the drug will encounter upon oral administration. When a drug is administered in the fed state, which is commonly the case for neonates, as they are typically fed every 3혻h, the digestion of the milk will affect the composition of the fluid available for drug dissolution/solubilization. Therefore, in order to predict the solubilized amount of drug available for absorption, an in vitro model simulating digestion in the gastro-intestinal tract should be utilized. In order to simulate the digestion process and the drug solubilization taking place in vivo, the following aspects should be considered; physiologically relevant media, media volume, use of physiological enzymes in proper amounts, as well as correct pH and addition of relevant co-factors, e.g., bile salts and co-enzymes. Furthermore, physiological transit times and appropriate mixing should be considered and mimicked as close as possible. This paper presents a literature review on physiological factors relevant for digestion and drug solubilization in neonates. Based on the available literature data, a novel in vitro digestion model simulating digestion and drug solubilization in the neonate and young infant pediatric population (2혻months old and younger) was designed.
BACKGROUND This study explored perspectives of health-care providers on childhood cancer treatment in Kenya.   MATERIALS AND METHODS A self-administered questionnaire was completed by 104 health-care providers in January and February 2013.   RESULTS Seventy six percent of the health-care providers believed cancer to be curable. More doctors than other health-care providers had this positive opinion (p=0.037). The majority of health-care providers (92%) believed that most children with cancer will not be able to finish their treatment due to financial difficulties. They considered that prosperous highly-educated parents adhere better with treatment (88%) and that doctors adhere better with treatment for prosperous highly-educated parents (79%). According to 74% of health-care providers, quality of care is better for prosperous highly-educated parents (74%). Most health-care providers reported giving more explanation (71%), work with greater accuracy (70%) and use less difficult vocabulary (55%) to prosperous more educated families. Only 34% of health-care providers reported they feel more empathy towards patients from prosperous families. Reasons for non-adherence with the protocol according to health-care providers are: family refuses drugs (85%), inadequate supply of drugs at pharmacy (79%), child looks ill (75%), and financial difficulties of parents (69%).   CONCLUSIONS Health-care providers' health beliefs and attitudes differ for patients with families having high versus low socio-economic backgrounds.
INTRODUCTION Robotic technology has transformed both practice and education in many adult surgical specialties; no standardized training guidelines in pediatric surgery currently exist. The purpose of our study was to assess the prevalence of robotic procedures and extent of robotic surgery education in US pediatric surgery fellowships.   MATERIALS AND METHODS A deidentified survey measured utilization of the robot, perception on the utility of the robot, and its incorporation in training among the program directors of Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) pediatric surgery fellowships in the United States.   RESULTS Forty-one of the 47 fellowship programs (87%) responded to the survey. While 67% of respondents indicated the presence of a robot in their facility, only 26% reported its utilizing in their surgical practice. Among programs not utilizing the robot, most common reasons provided were lack of clear supportive evidence, increased intraoperative time, and incompatibility of instrument size to pediatric patients. While 58% of program directors believe that there is a future role for robotic surgery in children, only 18% indicated that robotic training should play a part in pediatric surgery education. Consequently, while over 66% of survey respondents received training in robot-assisted surgical technique, only 29% of fellows receive robot-assisted training during their fellowship.   CONCLUSIONS A majority of fellowships have access to a robot, but few utilize the technology in their current practice or as part of training. Further investigation is required into both the technology's potential benefits in the pediatric population and its role in pediatric surgery training.
Pediatricians are often first-line providers for children with food allergy. Food allergy management guidelines have been developed but are cumbersome and confusing, and significant variation exists in pediatricians' management practices. We therefore consolidated the guidelines into 5 key steps for pediatricians caring for patients with food allergy and used rapid-cycle improvement methods to create a clinical decision support system to facilitate the management of food allergy in the primary care setting. This report details the development of the Food Allergy Support Tool (FAST), its pilot testing in 4 primary care pediatric practices, and our ongoing efforts to improve its utility and ease of use. Key themes identified during these processes include the importance of both initial and ongoing provider education as well as the limitations of a tool that must be actively initiated by providers.
PURPOSE Multiple studies have documented the nonclinical characteristics of physician assistant (PA) practices in the emergency department (ED). This study examines the clinical care PAs provide to younger pediatric patients in a general community ED.   METHODS The electronic medical record database of an urban community general ED was queried to identify pediatric patients aged 6 years or younger. This age group was selected because it was considered to be representative of physiologic and pathologic conditions unique to children. The 72-hour recidivism rates were used as an objective outcome measure to compare the care provided by PAs with the care of attending emergency physicians (EPs). Three different treatment groups were defined for the analysis: EPs alone, PAs alone, and PAs with consults from EPs (PA & EP).   RESULTS A total of 10,369 children aged 6 years or younger were seen during a 24-month study period. The mean (SD) age of the patients was 2.2 (0.2) years, with 2909 (28%) aged 1 year or younger. A total of 807 (7.8%) patients returned within 72 hours of their initial ED visit with 57 (0.55%) subsequently admitted. Recidivism rates for the 3 clinical groups were as follows: PA (6.8%), EP (8.0%), and PA & EP (9.3%) (P < 0.03). Patients admitted to the hospital on their return visits for the 3 clinical groups were as follows: PA (0.4%), EP (0.6%), and PA & EP (0.7%) (P = 0.2).   CONCLUSIONS Based on the outcome measure of 72-hour recidivism, PA management of pediatric patients 6 years or younger is similar to that of attending EPs.
BACKGROUND Increasing demand for limited healthcare resources raises questions about appropriate use of inpatient beds. In the first paediatric bed utilisation study at a regional university centre in Ireland, we conducted a cross-sectional study to audit the utilisation of inpatient beds at the Regional Paediatric Unit (RPU) in University Hospital Limerick (UHL), Limerick, Ireland and also examined hospital activity data, to make recommendations for optimal use of inpatient resources.   METHODS We used a questionnaire based on the paediatric appropriateness evaluation protocol (PAEP), modified and validated for use in the United Kingdom, to prospectively gather data regarding reasons for admission and for ongoing care after 2 days, from case records for all inpatients during 11 days in February (winter) and 7 days in May-June (summer). We conducted bivariate and multivariate analysis to explore associations between failure to meet PAEP criteria and patient attributes including age, gender, admission outside of office hours, arrival by ambulance, and private health insurance. Inpatient bed occupancy and day ward activity were also scrutinised.   RESULTS Mean bed occupancy was 84.1%. In all, 12/355 (3.4%, 95% CI: 1.5%-5.3%) of children failed to meet PAEP admission criteria, and 27/189 (14.3%, 95% CI: 9.3%-19.3%) who were still inpatients after 2 days failed to meet criteria for ongoing care. 35/355 (9.9%, 95% CI: 6.8%-13.0%) of admissions fulfilled only the PAEP criterion for intravenous medications or fluid replacement. A logistic regression model constructed by forward selection identified a significant association between failure to meet PAEP criteria for ongoing care 2 days after admission and admission during office hours (08.00-17.59) (P = .020), and a marginally significant association between this outcome and arrival by ambulance (P = .054).   CONCLUSION At a mean bed occupancy of 84.1%, an Irish RPU can achieve 96.6% appropriate admissions. Although almost all inpatients met PAEP criteria, improvements could be made regarding emergency access to social services, management of parental anxiety, and optimisation of access to community-based services. Potential ways to provide nasogastric or intravenous fluid therapy on an ambulatory basis, and outpatient antimicrobial therapy (OPAT) should be explored. Elective surgical admissions should adhere to day-of-surgery admissions (DOSA) policy.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNAs involved in biological and pathological processes of every cell type, including liver cells. Transcribed from specific genes, miRNA precursors are processed in the cytoplasm into mature miRNAs and as part of the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC) complex binds to messenger RNA (mRNA) by imperfect complementarity. This leads to the regulation of gene expression at a post-transcriptional level. The function of a number of different miRNAs in fibrogenesis associated with the progression of chronic liver disease has recently been elucidated. Furthermore, miRNAs have been shown to be both disease-and tissue-specific and are stable in the circulation, which has led to increasing investigation on their utility as biomarkers for the diagnosis of chronic liver diseases, including those in children. Here, we review the current knowledge on the biogenesis of microRNA, the mechanisms of translational repression and the use of miRNA as circulatory biomarkers in chronic paediatric liver diseases including cystic fibrosis associated liver disease, biliary atresia and viral hepatitis B.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES Most children in the United States are treated in adult settings. Studies show that the pediatric population is vulnerable to medication errors. It can be extrapolated that children cared for in adult settings are at equal or higher risk for errors. The goal of this study was to assess the existing pediatric medication safety infrastructure within adult hospitals.   METHODS Questionnaire developed through Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) and distributed to pediatric hospitalist programs listed on the American Academy of Pediatrics, Section on Hospital Medicine web site and members of the American Academy of Pediatrics Quality Improvement Innovation Networks listserv. There were >20 questions regarding the use of various safety measures and characteristics of the hospital.   RESULTS Thirty-eight program staff and 26 Quality Improvement Innovation Networks listserv members completed the survey (total = 64). Of these, 90.6% use order sets or computerized provider order entry with pediatric weight-based dosing, 79.7% review pediatric medication safety events or concerns, 58.7% were aware that their hospital had defined or documented maximum doses on orders, and 50.0% had milligram-per-kilogram dosing required to be in the order. A majority of respondents document weights only in the metric system (kilograms or grams) in both the emergency department and the pediatric unit (84.4% and 92.1%, respectively). A total of 57.8% of hospitals had pharmacists trained in pediatrics, with hospitals with >300 beds more likely to have a pediatric pharmacist than those with <300 beds (75% vs 44%, P  .05).   CONCLUSIONS Pediatric medication safety infrastructure shows variations within the sites surveyed. Our results indicate that certain deficiencies are more widespread than others, providing opportunities for targeted, but hospital-specific interventions.
This article is the last in a 7-part series that aims to comprehensively describe the current state and future directions of pediatric emergency medicine fellowship training from the essential requirements to considerations for successfully administering and managing a program to the careers that may be anticipated on program completion. This article focuses on the many career paths as educators, researchers, advocates, innovators, consultants, administrators, and leaders available to pediatric emergency medicine physicians, in both clinical and nonclinical realms, and how fellows and junior faculty can enrich and prolong their careers through diversification.
Physical activity (PA) is essential for youth weight management. FOCUS on a Fitter Future (FFF), a group of health care professionals from 25 children's hospitals, sponsored by the Children's Hospital Association, examined current care practices for overweight and obese youth with the goal of building consensus on outcome measurements and quality improvement for pediatric weight management programs (WMPs). WMPs completed a survey regarding PA practices, including testing, assessment and intervention. Consistency in general treatment practices was noted with variability in implementation. All programs included PA assessment and counseling. A majority of programs measured aerobic fitness, and more than half evaluated muscular fitness. Most offered group exercise sessions. Programs differed in availability of resources, assessment tools, interventions and outcome measures. Based on current practice and research, the FFF PA subgroup recommends key components for inclusion in a pediatric WMP: exercise testing, body composition assessment, PA and sedentary behaviors measures, individual exercise counseling, and group exercise programming.
BACKGROUND The context for specialty residency training in pediatrics has broadened in recent decades to include distributed community sites as well as academic health science centers. Rather than creating parallel, community-only programs, most programs have expanded to include both community and large urban tertiary health center experiences. Despite these changes, there has been relatively little research looking at residents' experiences in these distributed graduate medical education programs.   OBJECTIVE A longitudinal case study was undertaken to explore the experiences of residents in a Canadian pediatrics residency program that involved a combination of clinical placements in a large urban tertiary health center and in regional hospitals.   METHODS The study drew on 2 streams of primary data: 1-on-1 interviews with residents at the end of each block rotation and annual focus groups with residents.   RESULTS A thematic analysis (using grounded theory techniques) of transcripts of the interviews and focus groups identified 6 high-level themes: access to training, quality of learning, patient mix, continuity of care, learner roles, and residents as teachers.   CONCLUSIONS Rather than finding that certain training contexts were 'better' than others when comparing residents' experiences of the various training contexts in this pediatrics residency, what emerged was an understanding that the different settings complemented each other. Residents were adamant that this was not a matter of superiority of one context over any other; their experiences in different contexts each made a valuable contribution to the quality of their training.
BACKGROUND Combined internal medicine and pediatrics (medicine-pediatrics) residencies were Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) accredited separately from their corresponding categorical residencies in June 2006.   OBJECTIVE We investigated how ACGME accreditation of medicine-pediatrics programs has affected the levels of support (both financial and personnel), the National Resident Matching Program (NRMP) match rate, performance on the board examination, and other graduate outcomes.   METHODS From 2009 through 2013 we sent an annual SurveyMonkey online survey to members of the Medicine-Pediatrics Program Directors Association. Questions pertained to program characteristics, program director support, recruitment, ambulatory training, and graduate data. More than 79% of responders completed the entire survey for each year (sample size was 60 program directors).   RESULTS Compared to the time prior to accreditation of the specialty, there was an increase in program directors who are dually trained (89% versus 93%), an increase in program director salary ($134,000 before accreditation versus $185,000 in 2013, P < .05), and an increase in the average full-time equivalent support (0.32 before accreditation versus 0.42 in 2013, P < .05). There was also an increase in programs with associate program directors (35% versus 78%), programs with chief residents (71% versus 91%), and an increase in program budgets controlled by program directors (52% versus 69%). The 2013 NRMP match rates increased compared to those of 2005 (99% versus 49%). Performance on the American Board of Pediatrics examination was comparable to that for pediatrics residents. Since accreditation, a larger number of residents are choosing careers in hospital medicine.   CONCLUSIONS Our data show widespread improved support for medicine-pediatrics programs since the 2006 start of ACGME accreditation.
BACKGROUND Burnout is typically viewed as an individual condition, and no link has been identified between burnout and loneliness.   OBJECTIVE To investigate the association of burnout with loneliness and social network degree and centrality.   METHODS A survey containing the Maslach Burnout Inventory (MBI), a 3-question loneliness scale, and a social connectivity component was sent to residents in a large urban academic medical center internal medicine residency program.   RESULTS The response rate was 77% (95 of 124 residents). We defined significant burnout as MBI subscores of  27 for emotional exhaustion (EE),  10 for depersonalization (DP), or both. This was met by 43 (45%), 47 (49%), and 31 (33%) out of 95 respondents, respectively. Those with significant burnout had higher loneliness scores: 5.6 versus 4.5 for EE (P = .002; OR = 1.50; 95% CI 1.15-1.95); 5.4 versus 4.6 for DP (P = .024; OR = 1.33; 95% CI 1.03-1.71); and 5.8 versus 4.6 for both EE and DP (P = .001; OR = 1.54; 95% CI 1.17-2.02). Rating a larger number of coresidents as closer connections on a 5-point Likert scale was not associated with lower burnout scores. No measures of centrality were associated with burnout scores for EE and/or DP. High personal accomplishment subscores on the MBI did correlate significantly with several measures of centrality.   CONCLUSIONS Burnout was associated with loneliness in a dose-dependent fashion. Greater sense of personal accomplishment was associated with greater network centrality.
PURPOSE Multidisciplinary tumour boards (MDTs) are conducted worldwide for the management of patients with cancer, and they deliver a higher standard of care by simultaneously involving different specialists in diagnosis and treatment planning. However, information of paediatric MDTs functioning is scarce. A pilot study was conducted in Spain in the frame of the European Expert Paediatric Oncology Reference Network for Diagnostics and Treatment (ExPO-r-Net).   METHODS A specific questionnaire was designed regarding various features of MDT practice. Data collected included information on the centres and the team, infrastructure for meetings, MDT organization/logistics and clinical decision-making. The survey was distributed to all Paediatric Oncology Units that register patients in the Spanish Registry of Childhood Tumours (RETI-SEHOP).   RESULTS 32 out of 43 contacted centres responded the questionnaire (74혻% response rate; 88혻% response rate for centres with >25 new patients/year). All units with >25 new patients/year have a dedicated Paediatric MDT compared to 76혻% of units with 25 new patients/year. MDTs should be improved at institutional level by clear protected time in service planning for all specialists involved, incentives for attendance and attendance registration. Clinical decision-making process and follow-up of recommendation adherence should be assessed and potential legal responsibilities for physicians participating in Tumour Board defined. Network collaboration through virtual MDTs, using available videoconferencing tools, is an opportunity to share expertise among centres.
Pharmacogenomic (PGx) information is increasingly being incorporated into US Food and Drug Administration-approved drug labels. We reviewed the data source (adults vs. pediatrics) of PGx information in approved drug labels and assessed the suitability of applying adult-derived PGx information and related prescribing recommendations to the care of pediatric patients. We identified 65 drugs with labels containing PGx information and that have also been evaluated in children and found that in the majority of cases (56/65, 86%), the PGx information described was derived from adult studies. The application of PGx information from adults to pediatrics was deemed suitable for 71.4% (n = 40) of the drugs and unclear for 28.6% (n = 16). An ontogeny effect, limited or conflicting data regarding ontogeny of the genetic biomarker, or a difference in the pathophysiology or progression of the adult vs. pediatric disease were the primary reasons for deeming direct application from adults to pediatrics unclear.
Several studies have examined how doctors learn in the workplace, but research is needed linking workplace learning with the organisation of doctors' daily work. This study examined residents' and consultants' attitudes and beliefs regarding workplace learning and contextual and organisational factors influencing the organisation and planning of medical specialist training. An explorative case study in three paediatric departments in Denmark including 9혻days of field observations and focus group interviews with 9 consultants responsible for medical education and 16 residents. The study aimed to identify factors in work organisation facilitating and hindering residents' learning. Data were coded through an iterative process guided by thematic analysis. Findings illustrate three main themes: (1) Learning beliefs about patient care and apprenticeship learning as inseparable in medical practice. Beliefs about training and patient care expressed in terms of training versus production caused a potential conflict. (2) Learning context. Continuity over time in tasks and care for patients is important, but continuity is challenged by the organisation of daily work routines. (3) Organisational culture and regulations were found to be encouraging as well inhibiting to a successful organisation of the work in regards to learning. Our findings stress the importance of consultants' and residents' beliefs about workplace learning as these agents handle the potential conflict between patient care and training of health professionals. The structuring of daily work tasks is a key factor in workplace learning as is an understanding of underlying relations and organisational culture in the clinical departments.
BACKGROUND The correct placement of an endotracheal tube in children is essential as incorrect placement following unilateral ventilation and tube displacement may lead to far-reaching consequences, such as volutrauma and hypoxia, respectively. Different formulae referring to the correct placement of nasotracheal and orotracheal tubes have been published with reference to body weight and age.   OBJECTIVE The aim of the present review article was to identify and compare the published formulae for estimating correct endotracheal tube placement in children with their advantages and disadvantages.   MATERIAL AND METHODS A search in Medline and PubMed was performed to identify published formulae. Formulae for insertion depth in orotracheal and also nasotracheal intubation are discussed. The published formulae for newborns and infants are presented separately. The keywords 'paediatric'/'pediatric', 'anaesthesia'/'anesthesia', 'anaesthesiology'/'anesthesiology', 'endotracheal tube', 'placement', 'position', 'length', 'depth' and 'insertion' were used to identify the formulae.   RESULTS A total of 806 publications were found, 16 publications were identified as being relevant and 13 different formulae were identified. In the age group from 1 to 16 years old a total of 7 formulae (6 age-based formulae and one based on weight) and for newborns and infants a total of 6 formulae (4 formulae based on body weight, 1 formula based on body length and 1 formula based on gestational age) were found. All publications were subsequently assessed and classified independently by a specialist physician in anesthesiology and a specialist physician in pediatrics.   CONCLUSION The published formulae were comparatively simply to apply but had notable limitations. Correlating the position of the endotracheal tubes with chest x-rays, the concordance analysis showed that for the age-based formulae using orotracheal as well as nasotracheal intubation and in both age groups, an accordance could only be achieved in a maximum of 81%. In the presence of a lack of alternative possibilities, only one formula based on the gestational age seemed to have an impact on estimation of correct endotracheal tube depth placement in newborns and infants. Therefore, a generally valid formula cannot be recommended without verification by auscultation or chest x-ray.
PURPOSE Although surgical residency training is a structured, regulated system for surgical skill acquisition, after residency or fellowship, no good method exists for practicing surgeons to learn new, developing techniques. Because 1-2-day simulation courses are probably inadequate for teaching a new technique and because it is often unrealistic for a practicing surgeon to leave his or her practice for an extended period of time, surgical telementoring may be a solution by allowing an expert to support a trained surgeon through the learning curve of a new procedure while overcoming geographic distance. In the past we have presented 6 cases of transcontinental telementoring with pediatric surgeons in the United States. We have since expanded the concept to trans-Atlantic telementoring and performed 2 cases with pediatric surgeons in France.   MATERIALS AND METHODS The two telementors and one of the two telementees had previously met through a professional society but had never operated together before this experience. The first procedure was an interval laparoscopic appendectomy to test the process. The second procedure was a thoracoscopic total thymectomy. The technology consisted of the VisitOR1짰 telementoring robot (Karl Storz GmbH & Co. KG, Tuttlingen, Germany).   RESULTS Both procedures were completed successfully with high satisfaction from both the telementors and telementees. Latency was low, and there was no loss of connection. The telestration and laser pointer features of the robot facilitated the telementoring experience. Challenges included lack of a prior surgical relationship between the mentees and mentors that limited the depth of advice but did not impair the quality of the surgery, as well as poor audio quality that was overcome using headsets.   CONCLUSIONS From this experience, several challenges were identified and addressed. Telementoring may be an effective means of improving adoption of new surgical techniques, ultimately improving patient care.
During the age of enlightenment in the 18th century, radical changes were occurring in the Western world in science, medicine, philosophy, religion, and socio-economic concepts. In medicine, major advances had already been underway since the days of Vesalius.
OBJECTIVE To evaluate the impact of an integrated child health system.   DESIGN Mixed methods service evaluation.   SETTING AND PATIENTS Children, young people and their families registered in Child Health General Practitioner (GP) Hubs where groups of GP practices come together to form 'hubs'.   INTERVENTIONS Hospital paediatricians and GPs participating in joint clinics and multidisciplinary team (MDT) meetings in GP practices, a component of an 'Inside-Out' change known as 'Connecting Care For Children (CC4C)'.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Cases seen in clinic or discussed at MDT meetings and their follow-up needs. Hospital Episode data: outpatient and inpatient activity and A&E attendance. Patient-reported experience measures and professionals' feedback.   RESULTS In one hub, 39% of new patient hospital appointments were avoided altogether and a further 42% of appointments were shifted from hospital to GP practice. In addition, there was a 19% decrease in sub-specialty referrals, a 17% reduction in admissions and a 22% decrease in A&E attenders. Smaller hubs running at lower capacity in early stages of implementation had less impact on hospital activity. Patients preferred appointments at the GP practice, gained increased confidence in taking their child to the GP and all respondents said they would recommend the service to family and friends. Professionals valued the improvement in knowledge and learning and, most significantly, the development of trust and collaboration.   CONCLUSIONS Child Health GP Hubs increase the connections between secondary and primary care, reduce secondary care usage and receive high patient satisfaction ratings while providing learning for professionals.
The aim of this paper was to determine experimentally the entrance surface air kerma (ESAK) and kerma-area product (KAP) levels to patients and scatter doses at the cardiologist's eyes during paediatric interventional cardiology (IC) procedures for Chile, on the basis of measurements taken from X-ray systems characterization for different thicknesses of polymethyl methacrylate, together with the average values of fluoroscopy time and number of cine frames for ten paediatric IC procedures. The range of cumulative ESAK values when the different clinical procedures were simulated was from 2 to 1100뎜Gy. KAP values ranged from 0.30 to 150덲y뎑m(2). Scatter doses at cardiologist's eyes for the simulated procedures ranged from 0.20 to 116됀킪v per procedure. Large differences between the X-ray systems were found in our study. Standardized guidelines in terms of X-ray system setting and protocols should be developed for hospitals that perform paediatric IC procedures in Chile.
QUESTIONS UNDER STUDY Completeness is important in cancer registration. Identifying areas to improve registry procedures might help to maximise completeness. We examined characteristics of childhood cancer cases that were registered via death certificate notification (DCN) rather than during life, and estimated completeness of the Swiss Childhood Cancer Registry (SCCR).   METHODS We analysed data from all children who died from cancer in Switzerland between 1985-2009 at age <16 years (n = 978), and checked whether they had been registered in the SCCR. We used multivariable logistic regression to compare characteristics of DCN cases with deceased SCCR cases, and the DCN-to-incidence and mortality-to-incidence ratio method to estimate completeness for different diagnostic periods.   RESULTS Among 978 deceased children with cancer, 126 (12.9%) were registered via DCN. Those with tumours of digestive organs (odds ratio [OR] 5.1; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.9-13.7), tumours of endocrine glands (OR 4.5; 95% CI 1.6-12.3), and brain tumours (OR 3.1; 95% CI 1.7-5.5) were more likely to be DCN cases than those with leukaemia. Neonates (OR 14.1, 95% CI 5.3-37.3), infants (OR 7.5; 95% CI 3.1-18.0) and 14-15 year olds (OR 2.4; 95% CI 1.2-4.9) were more likely to be DCN cases than 1-4 year olds. The DCN proportion was particularly high in infants who lived in rural regions. Estimated completeness of the SCCR increased from 85% for 1985-89 to  95% for 1995-2009.   CONCLUSIONS Childhood cancer registration in Switzerland was quite complete, but registration must improve for infants, particularly neonates, and children diagnosed with hepatic, endocrine and brain tumours.
Robotic surgery affords refined surgical movements that exceed the natural range of motion of the human hand, combined with high definition three-dimensional visualization and superior magnification. While open surgery has long been the standard of care in the pediatric population, robot-assisted surgery (RAS) has gained increasing acceptance among pediatric urologists, bridging the gap between laparoscopy and open surgery. Pyeloplasty for ureteropelvic junction obstruction remains the most commonly performed robotic procedure in pediatric urology; however, utilization of RAS has expanded to include nearly all upper and lower urinary tract surgeries in the pediatric urologist's armamentarium. Ongoing innovation has led to improved methods and instrumentation, facilitating ease of patient recovery and improved quality of life outcomes.
This paper presents the evidence for a standard of care for psychosocial assessment in pediatric cancer. An interdisciplinary group of investigators utilized EBSCO, PubMed, PsycINFO, Ovid, and Google Scholar search databases, focusing on five areas: youth/family psychosocial adjustment, family resources, family/social support, previous history/premorbid functioning, and family structure/function. Descriptive quantitative studies, systematic reviews, and meta-analyses (n = 149) were reviewed and evaluated using grading of recommendations, assessment development, and evaluation (GRADE) criteria. There is high quality evidence to support a strong recommendation for multifaceted, systematic assessments of psychosocial health care needs of youth with cancer and their families as a standard of care in pediatric oncology.
Research indicates that a subset of youths with childhood cancer and their parents will experience significant psychological distress throughout the course of their illness. Importantly, the existing literature indicates that psychosocial support is beneficial in decreasing symptoms of distress in these families. The aim of the current review is to determine the extent of the evidence to support a standard of psychosocial care for children and their families throughout the cancer trajectory; thus, we examined the research related to psychosocial outcomes in youth with cancer and their parents.
Childhood cancer survivors (CCS) have a high risk of medical late effects following cancer therapy. Psychosocial late effects are less often recognized. Many CCS do not receive long-term follow-up (LTFU) care, and those who do are rarely screened for psychosocial late effects. An interdisciplinary team conducted a systematic review of qualitative and quantitative studies to assess social, educational, vocational, psychological, and behavioral outcomes along with factors related to receipt of LTFU care. We propose that psychosocial screening be considered a standard of care in long-term follow-up care and that education be provided to promote the use LTFU care starting early in the treatment trajectory.
Family financial hardship has emerged as a burden of pediatric cancer treatment with negative implications for family well-being. As part of an extensive project to create evidence-based standards for the psychosocial care of children with cancer, we performed a literature review of pediatric cancer-associated financial hardship utilizing six databases, and identified 24 publications for incorporation into this review. Financial hardship during childhood cancer was found to affect a significant proportion of the population and to negatively impact family well-being. Existing literature supports a strong recommendation for assessment of financial hardship as a component of comprehensive psychosocial care in pediatric oncology.
Youth with cancer undergo many repeated and invasive medical procedures that are often painful and highly distressing. A systematic review of published research since 1995 identified 65 papers (11 review articles and 54 empirical studies) that investigated preparatory information and psychological interventions for a variety of medical procedures in pediatric cancer. Distraction, combined cognitive-behavioral strategies, and hypnosis were identified as effective for reducing child pain and increasing child coping. Low- to high-quality evidence informed strong recommendations for all youth with cancer to receive developmentally appropriate preparatory information and psychological intervention for invasive medical procedures.
Experiences with peers constitute an important aspect of socialization, and children and adolescents with cancer may experience reduced social interaction due to treatment. A literature review was conducted to investigate the evidence to support a standard of care evaluating these experiences. Sixty-four articles were reviewed using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) criteria. Moderate quality of evidence suggest that social interaction can be beneficial to increase knowledge, decrease isolation, and improve adjustment and constitute an important, unmet need. The evidence supports a strong recommendation for youth with cancer to be provided opportunities for social interaction following a careful assessment of their unique characteristics and preferences.
In this study, evidence is provided for supporting siblings as a standard of care in pediatric oncology. Using Medline, PsycInfo, and CINAHL, a systematic search of articles published over the past two decades about siblings of children with cancer was conducted. A total of 125 articles, which were primarily descriptive studies, were evaluated by the four investigators using Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) criteria. There is moderate-quality evidence, as well as support from community stakeholders, to justify a strong recommendation that siblings of children with cancer should be provided with psychosocial services and that parents and professionals are advised about how to meet siblings' needs.
The aim of this review was to critically evaluate the literature on anticipatory guidance and psychoeducation for youth with cancer and their caregivers. Twenty-one publications were identified. Overall, psychoeducation efforts and interventions were well-liked and accepted by patients and caregivers, improved patient and family knowledge about childhood cancer, and increased patient's health locus of control. A number of modalities are effective in giving families anticipatory guidance, provided the content and delivery are matched to the needs and preferences of individual patients and caregivers. Evidence supports a strong recommendation for psychoeducation for youth with cancer and their families.
Poor adherence to pediatric cancer treatment protocols may prevent children and adolescents from realizing the potential benefits of therapy. This paper presents the evidence for a standard of care for supporting medication adherence. Databases were reviewed for articles examining adherence and including children and/or adolescents with cancer. Fourteen articles (i.e., qualitative, quantitative, review, and randomized clinical trials) were evaluated for rigor. There is moderate-quality evidence to support a strong recommendation for adherence to be assessed routinely and monitored throughout the treatment. Integrating the proposed clinical procedures into standard clinical care may improve outcomes for children and adolescents with cancer.
Clinicians agree that return to school after diagnosis promotes the positive adjustment of children and adolescents with cancer; however, the school reentry process can present challenges. The aim of this review was to critically evaluate the literature on school reentry support for youth with cancer. Seventeen publications were identified. School reentry services were well-received by families and educators; increased teacher and peer knowledge about childhood cancer; influenced peer and educator attitudes toward the patient; and improved communication and collaboration between patients/families, school, and the healthcare team. Evidence supports a strong recommendation for school reentry support for youth with cancer.
The study team conducted a systematic review of pediatric and adolescent palliative cancer care literature from 1995 to 2015 using four databases to inform development of a palliative care psychosocial standard. A total of 209 papers were reviewed with inclusion of 73 papers for final synthesis. Revealed topics of urgent consideration include the following: symptom assessment and intervention, direct patient report, effective communication, and shared decision-making. Standardization of palliative care assessments and interventions in pediatric oncology has the potential to foster improved quality of care across the cancer trajectory for children and adolescents with cancer and their family members.
As part of a larger effort to create standards for psychosocial care of children with cancer, we document consensus and evidence-based data on interprofessional communication, documentation, and training for professionals providing psycho-oncology services. Six databases were searched. Sixty-five articles and six guidelines and consensus-based documents were identified; 35 met inclusion criteria. Data support strong recommendations for standards of care in communication/collaboration, documentation of patient information, and training in pediatric psycho-oncology. These are areas where extensive research is unlikely to be conducted; however, professional expectations and qualifications may be further clarified and strengthened with time.
After a child's death to cancer, families commonly want continued connection with the healthcare team that cared for their child, yet bereavement follow-up is often sporadic. A comprehensive literature search found that many bereaved parents experience poor psychological outcomes during bereavement and that parents want follow-up and benefit from continued connection with their child's healthcare providers. Evidence suggests that the standard of care should consist of at least one meaningful contact between the healthcare team and bereaved parents to identify those at risk for negative psychosocial sequelae and to provide resources for bereavement support.
Children's healthcare has evolved over the years, and the pediatric laboratory has contributed to the clinical understanding of childhood disease through the application of new technology and knowledge. This article highlights the evolution of PCR technology to aid in the diagnosis of pediatric infections, from the discovery of the PCR, through the subsequent years when the clinical need exceeded the capability of the technology, until the current day, when application of the PCR is becoming commonplace.
This review discusses the history of the classification of soft tissue sarcomas in children and adolescents, the current transition toward integration of morphology and molecular genetics as new entities emerge, and future perspectives.
The purpose of this study was to assess the effects of a cultural competence training (CCT) program on pediatric health care providers' self-reported ability to provide culturally competent care to a diverse pediatric patient population. This quantitative, nested ecologic level study design used a repeated measure in the form of pre-test and post-test data to assess percent change in providers' cultural awareness, experience working or learning about different cultures, and preparedness and skills in working with different cultures before and after CCT. The study was conducted between 2011 and 2012 in a pediatric hospital and associated outpatient offices. The sample consisted of pediatric health care providers from various departments, mainly physicians and nurses (n = 69). Participants completed a pre-intervention cultural competence assessment and then were subjected to a cultural competence-training program, after which they completed the assessment a second time. The baseline and post-intervention data were collected in the form of Likert scales and transformed into a quintile or quartile scale as appropriate. Data were assessed using paired t-tests or Wilcoxon's signed-rank tests. Providers indicated a 13% increase in knowledge (53.9% vs. 66.7%, t = 3.4, p = 0.001), 8.7% increase in awareness (46.7% vs. 55.4%, t = 3.0, p = 0.002), and 8% statistically marginal increase in skills (66.4% vs. 74.5%, z = 1.8, p = 0.06). Culturally competent training in a pediatric environment significantly enhances knowledge, awareness and to some extent skills in providing care to culturally diverse patient population.
OBJECTIVE To examine published research which explores the perception and acceptability of microneedle technology for immunisation and to investigate the suitability of this technology for paediatric use.   METHODS A series of keywords and their synonyms were combined in various combinations and permutations using Boolean operators to sequentially search four databases (PubMed, Web of Science, Embase and CINAHL). Following removal of duplications and irrelevant results, 12 research articles were included in the final literature review.   RESULTS The opinions of patients, parents, children and healthcare professionals (HCP) were collated. A positive perception and a high level of acceptability predominated.   CONCLUSION Microneedle technology research has been focussed on demonstrating efficacy with minimal focus on determining HCP/public perception and acceptability for paediatric use, exemplified by the paucity of studies presented in this review. Commercial viability will depend on HCP/public acceptability of microneedle technology. An effort must be made to identify the barriers to acceptance and to overcome them by increasing awareness and education in stakeholder groups pertaining to the paediatric population.
OBJECTIVE To estimate prevalence of car safety seat (CSS) misuse for newborns on hospital discharge; and to identify potential risk and protective factors for CSS misuse.   STUDY DESIGN We randomly sampled 291 mother-baby dyads from the newborn unit of an academic health center. Participants completed a survey and designated someone (themselves or another caregiver) to position their newborn in the CSS and install the CSS in their vehicle. Certified child passenger safety technicians assessed positioning and installation using nationally standardized criteria. To examine factors associated with CSS misuse, we used logistic regression to compute ORs and 95% CIs.   RESULTS A total of 291 families (81% of those eligible) participated. Nearly all (95%) CSSs were misused, with 1 or more errors in positioning (86%) and/or installation (77%). Serious CSS misuse occurred for 91% of all infants. Frequent misuses included harness and chest clip errors, incorrect recline angle, and seat belt/lower anchor use errors. Families with mothers of color (OR, 6.3; 95% CI, 1.8-21.6), non-English language (OR, 4.9; 95% CI, 1.1-21.2), Medicaid (OR, 10.3; 95% CI, 2.4-44.4), or lower educational level (OR, 4.5; 95% CI, 1.7-12.4) were more likely to misuse CSSs. However, families that worked with a child passenger safety technician before delivery were significantly less likely to misuse their CSSs (OR, 0.1; 95% CI, 0.0-0.4).   CONCLUSION Nearly all parents of newborn infants misused CSSs. Resources should be devoted to ensuring families with newborns leave the hospital correctly using their CSS.
Concussions make up nearly 10% of all high school athletic injuries. Recent changes in concussion management guidelines and legislation aim to make concussion care more standardized and safe but simultaneously pose a challenge for the primary care and sports medicine physician. Pediatric and adolescent concussions may cause anxiety for the treating physician due to concerns over return-to-play decisions, academic issues, and the potential for second impact syndrome. Determining when to refer a patient to an emergency department acutely, to an outpatient concussion clinic, or to other subspecialists may be a difficult decision for the primary care physician. The aim of this article is to review current evidence regarding concussion treatment and return-to-school and return-to-play recommendations to provide the primary care and sports medicine physician with practical guidelines for managing concussions.
BACKGROUND Tolvaptan, a vasopressin V2-receptor antagonist, has been reported to improve congestion in adult patients with heart failure. However, it has not been fully clarified whether tolvaptan is also effective and safe for pediatric patients as well as adult.   METHODS This trial was a multicenter, retrospective, observational study, and was led by the Japanese Society of PEdiatric Circulation and Hemodynamics (J-SPECH). Thirty-four pediatric patients who received tolvaptan to treat congestive heart failure were enrolled in this study.   RESULTS An increment in the urinary volume and decrease in the body weight from baseline were significant at day 1 (+106.7 짹 241.5%, p = 0.008 and -2.30 짹 4.17%, p = 0.01), day 3 (+113.5 짹 261.9%, p = 0.02 and -2.30 짹 4.17%, p = 0.01), week 1 (+56.3 짹 163.5%, p = 0.01 and -1.55 짹 4.09%, p = 0.03) and month 1 (+91.1 짹 171.6%, p = 0.01 and -2.95 짹 5.98, p = 0.03). The significant predictive factors in responders, who was defined as patients who achieved an increase in the urinary volume at day 1, were older age (p = 0.03), larger body weight before exacerbation (p = 0.04), higher weight at one day before the first administration of tolvaptan (p = 0.03), higher aspartate aminotransferase levels (p = 0.03) and higher urinary osmolality levels (p = 0.03). A logistic regression analysis showed that the urinary osmolality was the only significant predictive factor for responders to tolvaptan. Adverse drug reactions were observed in 7 patients (20.6%). Six patients had thirst and a dry month, and 1 had a mild increase in the alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase.   CONCLUSION Tolvaptan can be effectively and safely administered in pediatric patients. Because the kidneys in neonates and infants are resistant to arginine vasopressin, the efficacy of tolvaptan may be less effective compared to older children.
To reduce inequities in child health, we need to reduce the gap between what we know and what we do. We must challenge our practices and traditions, develop new solutions and have the strength and courage to change how we practice. Based on my experience that the best way to help children is to help their parents, and the best way to reach parents is through their children, I propose a new frame of a 2-generation approach that focuses not only on the child but also on the parents and their relationship to guide our innovation and target improvements. Pediatricians' knowledge and empathy for families is a special base to use new strategies to test ideas on a small number of families with minimal time and cost. Examples from our work includes the following: (1) identify and refer parents with mental health conditions and lack of effective contraception, (2) develop more effective approaches to explain illness and disease to parents, and (3) educate parents about the impact of social relations from infancy on; love can amplify and stress can impair brain and child development. I encourage clinicians to think about what should be changed and more importantly to be excited and brave enough to take the first steps to design and test an idea.
The factors of integral importance to run any pediatric emergency department efficiently are the ability to process a high volume of patients quickly and a sensitive triage system that identifies the sickest children. Achieving these aims in a low- to middle-income country setting is more complex as a result of scarce resources and data on which to base systems. In this article, we discuss existing models of streamlining pediatric emergency department services that are most applicable to resource-limited countries, and present suggestions for streamlining pediatric emergency care in such countries.
The concept of pediatric emergency medicine (PEM) is virtually nonexistent in India. Suboptimally organized prehospital services substantially hinder the evaluation, management, and subsequent transport of the acutely ill and/or injured child to an appropriate facility. Furthermore, the management of the ill child at the hospital level is often provided by overburdened providers who, by virtue of their training, lack experience in the skills required to effectively manage pediatric emergencies. Finally, the care of the traumatized child often requires the involvement of providers trained in different specialities, which further impedes timely access to appropriate care. The recent recognition of Doctor of Medicine in Emergency Medicine as an approved discipline of study as per the Indian Medical Council Act provides an unprecedented opportunity to introduce PEM as a formal academic program in India. PEM has to be developed as a 3 year superspeciality course after completion of MD Diplomate of National Board (DNB) Pediatrics or MD DNB in EM. The National Board of Examinations that accredits and administers postgraduate and postdoctoral programs in India also needs to develop an academic program DNB in PEM. The goals of such a program would be to impart theoretical knowledge, training in the appropriate skills and procedures, development of communication and counseling techniques, and research. In this paper, the Joint Working Group of the Academic College of Emergency Experts in India (JWG ACEE India) gives its recommendations for starting 3 year DM DNB in PEM, including the curriculum, infrastructure, staffing, and training in India. This is an attempt to provide an uniform framework and a set of guiding principles to start PEM as a structured superspeciality to enhance emergency care for Indian children.
The increase in pediatric cardiac surgical procedures and establishment of the practice of pediatric cardiac intensive care has created the need for physicians with advanced and specialized knowledge and training. Current training pathways to become a pediatric cardiac intensivist have a great deal of variability and have unique strengths and weaknesses with influences from critical care, cardiology, neonatology, anesthesiology, and cardiac surgery. Such variability has created much confusion among trainees looking to pursue a career in our specialized field. This is a report with perspectives from the most common advanced fellowship training pathways taken to become a pediatric cardiac intensivist as well as various related topics including scholarship, qualifications, and credentialing.
BACKGROUND In 2007, the American Heart Association modified the infective endocarditis prophylaxis guidelines by limiting the use of antibiotics in patients with cardiac conditions associated with the highest risk of adverse outcomes after infective endocarditis. Our objective was to evaluate current practice for infective endocarditis prophylaxis among paediatric cardiologists.   METHODS A web-based survey focussing on current practice, describing the use of antibiotics for infective endocarditis prophylaxis in various congenital and acquired heart diseases, was distributed via e-mail to paediatric cardiologists. The survey was kept anonymous and was distributed twice.   RESULTS Data from 253 participants were analysed. Most paediatric cardiologists discontinued infective endocarditis prophylaxis in patients with simple lesions such as small ventricular septal defect, patent ductus arteriosus, and bicuspid aortic valve without stenosis or regurgitation; however, significant disagreement persists in prescribing infective endocarditis prophylaxis in certain conditions such as rheumatic heart disease, Fontan palliation without fenestration, and the Ross procedure. Use of antibiotic prophylaxis in certain selected conditions for which infective endocarditis prophylaxis has been indicated as per the current guidelines varies from 44 to 83%. Only 44% follow the current guidelines exclusively, and 34% regularly discuss the importance of oral hygiene with their patients at risk for infective endocarditis.   CONCLUSION Significant heterogeneity still persists in recommending infective endocarditis prophylaxis for several cardiac lesions among paediatric cardiologists. More than half of the participants (56%) do not follow the current guidelines exclusively in their practice. Counselling for optimal oral health in patients at risk for infective endocarditis needs to be optimised in the current practice.
OBJECTIVE Ultrasound (US) guidance for central venous catheter (CVC) placement results in improved success and overall safety, but is a new skill for pediatric emergency medicine (PEM) physicians. No study to date has used simulation-based learning to evaluate the ability of PEM providers to perform US-guided CVC placement.Our objective was to assess the competency of physicians in a rarely performed procedure, US-guided CVC placement, before and after an educational intervention using simulation-based mastery learning.   METHODS We performed a prospective cohort study evaluating change in PEM physician competency in US-guided CVC placement before and after an educational intervention. Subjects participated in a curriculum composed of 3 sessions: an intervention session, a 2-month follow-up session, and a 12-month follow-up session. At each session, subjects were observed using US to guide CVC placement on a simulation model and technical skill was scored using a validated direct-observation checklist. Competency was defined as successfully completing 7 critical items on the checklist.   RESULTS Of the 28 PEM physicians participating, competency improved from 32% at preintervention to 93% at 2-month follow-up (difference, 62%; 95% confidence interval, 36%-84%). At 12-month follow-up, competency remained high (85%; difference, 53%; 95% confidence interval, 32%-75%).   CONCLUSIONS Physician competency in US-guided CVC placement improved with a simulation-based educational intervention, and the effect was maintained over time. This study may serve as a model for outcomes-based education and certification in rarely performed procedures in pediatrics.
OBJECTIVES Acetaminophen (APAP) elixir is a widely used pediatric antipyretic medication. It has been shown that up to 30% of febrile children presenting to a large urban pediatric emergency department received inadequate APAP dosages at home with errors primarily due to age-based dosing. Parental education material in the form of weight-based dosing guides has been proposed; however, validation of current recommended APAP dosages using pharmacokinetic models is needed. This study used a mathematical model of APAP absorption to predict plasma concentrations and to compare them with the range required to reach and achieve antipyresis (10-20 關g/mL).   METHODS A common APAP preparation (Children's Tylenol Elixir) was tested (children aged 2-3 years, 10.9-15.9 kg). The manufacturer's suggested dose of 160 mg was compared with the standard 10 to 15 mg/kg dose range.   RESULTS The model predicts a peak plasma concentration between 6.38 and 8.55 關g/mL for 10 mg/kg dose and 9.57 and 12.8 關g/mL for 15 mg/kg dose. The manufacturer's suggested dose of 160 mg was tested across the limits of the weight range (10.9-15.9 kg). A peak plasma concentration between 9.36 and 12.6 關g/mL was found for the lower weight limit (10.9 kg child) and 6.42 to 8.61 關g/mL for the upper weight limit (15.9 kg child).   CONCLUSIONS With the use of this model, the 10 mg/kg dose does not reach the plasma concentration value for antipyresis (10-20 關g/mL), whereas 15 mg/kg is adequate only if assuming a greater absorption constant. The 160 mg dose is effective only for children weighing 10.9 kg. Individual differences in drug bioavailability, volume of distribution, and absorption/elimination constants undoubtedly exist, and future studies directly measuring plasma APAP concentration and pharmacokinetics are needed. However, these results indicate that dosages for APAP in children should be weight based and manufacturers should review their dosing recommendations.
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) does not refer to a specific disease but rather a clinical manifestation emanating from a decrease in functional pulmonary vasculature resulting in progressively elevated right ventricle pressure and ultimately right heart failure. It is an uncommon disease process, but because of advancements in treatment, improved survival, and increasing prevalence, there is a greater likelihood that the emergency clinician will have to care for a child with PH. This review article, intended for emergency medical providers for children, is aimed at familiarizing clinicians with pediatric PH including the pathophysiology, clinical presentation and initial diagnostic strategies, basic chronic management, and management of a pulmonary hypertensive crisis.
We report an incidental diagnosis of crossed fused renal ectopia diagnosed in a patient initially evaluated with an educational point-of-care ultrasound (US). We review the US technique, sonographic findings, and the relevant literature regarding renal US.
OBJECTIVES Changes in health care delivery and graduate medical education have important consequences for the workforce in pediatric emergency medicine (PEM). This study compared career preparation and potential attrition of the PEM workforce with the prior assessment from 1998.   METHODS An e-mail survey was sent to members of the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) Section혻on EM and to non-AAP members board certified in PEM. Information on demographics, practice characteristics and professional activities, career preparation, future plans, and burnout (using two validated screening questions) was analyzed using standard descriptive statistics.   RESULTS Of 2,120 surveys mailed, 895 responses were received (40.8% response). Over half (53.7%) of respondents were female, compared with 44% in 1998. The majority (62.9%) practiced in the emergency department (ED) of a free-standing children's hospital. The distribution of professional activities was similar to that reported in 1998, with the majority of time (60%) spent in direct patient care. Half indicated involvement in research, and almost half had dedicated time for other activities, including emergency medical services (7.3%), disaster (6.9%), child abuse (5.0%), transport (3.6%), toxicology (2.3% of respondents), and other (13.6%); additionally, 21.3% had dedicated time for quality/safety. Respondents were highly satisfied (95.6%) with fellowship preparation for clinical care, but less satisfied with preparation for research (49.2%) and administration (38.7%). However, satisfaction with nonclinical training was higher for those within 10 years of medical school graduation. Forty-six percent plan to change clinical activity in the next 5혻years, including reducing hours, changing shifts, or retiring. Overall, 11.9% of all respondents, including 20.1% of women and 2.6% of men (p혻<혻0.001), report currently working part time. Large majorities endorsed feeling burned out at work (88.5%) or more callous toward people as a result of work (67.5%) at least monthly, with one in five reporting such feelings at least weekly.   CONCLUSIONS While satisfaction with fellowship preparation for professional activities in PEM is improving, gaps remain in training in nonclinical skills. Symptoms of burnout are prevalent, and there is likely to be substantial attrition of PEM providers in the near future.
Meaningful child participation in medical research is seen as important. In order to facilitate further development of participatory research, we performed a systematic literature study to describe and assess the available knowledge on participatory methods in pediatric research. A search was executed in five databases: PubMed, CINAHL, PsycINFO, Scopus, and Cochrane. After careful screening of relevant papers, finally 24 documents were included in our analysis. Literature on participatory methods in pediatric research appears generally to be descriptive, whereby high-quality evidence is lacking. Overall, five groups of participatory methods for children could be distinguished: observational, verbal, written, visual, and active methods. The choice for one of these methods should be based on the child's age, on social and demographic characteristics, and on the research objectives. To date, these methods are still solely used for obtaining data, yet they are suitable for conducting meaningful participation. This may result in a successful partnership between children and researchers. Researchers conducting participatory research with children can use this systematic review in order to weigh the current knowledge about the participatory methods presented.
OBJECTIVES We aimed to describe the clinical characteristics, diagnostic work-up, interventions, and outcomes of children referred to a pediatric gastroenterology clinic with the diagnosis of failure to thrive (FTT).   METHODS We prospectively enrolled 110 children seen for the first time in our pediatric gastroenterology clinic for FTT. Standard demographic information, history, and anthropometric data were collected at initial and follow-up visits. We also obtained data about diagnostic workup, therapeutic interventions, and growth outcomes.   RESULTS Seventy patients (63.6%) were boys with a median age of 0.79 years (interquartile range 0.36-1.98). Of the 91 children with follow-up data, 81 (89%) were found to have nonorganic etiologies of their FTT. The majority of children (56.4%) underwent laboratory evaluation. Imaging and endoscopic evaluations were performed in fewer patients (29.6 and 10.2%, respectively). Endoscopic intervention yielded a diagnosis in 16.7% of patients while the positive result rates for laboratory testing and imaging were 3.2% and 3.1%, respectively. The most common therapeutic interventions included increasing calories (71.8%), avoiding grazing (71.8%), and structuring meals and snacks (67.3%). Compared with nonadherent children, children who were adherent with standard behavioral and nutritional interventions showed a higher positive change in z scores for weight (0.36 vs -0.01, P=0.001) and body mass index (0.58 vs -0.18, P=0.031).   CONCLUSIONS The majority of children in a pediatric gastroenterology clinic with FTT have nonorganic etiologies of their failure to thrive. Laboratory, imaging, and endoscopic evaluation are rarely positive and should be judiciously performed. Adherence to standardized interventions leads to improved growth.
OBJECTIVES To determine differences in the incidence of respiratory morbidity during the first year of life among infants born 32(0/7)-34(6/7) weeks' gestational age (GA) before and after the administration policy for palivizumab, as written by the American Academy of Pediatrics, was updated in 2009.   STUDY DESIGN Secondary analysis of the dataset collected for the Gastrointestinal Risk Factors for Wheezing in Premature Infants study, which enrolled preterm infants without bronchopulmonary dysplasia and followed them by parental questionnaires at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months adjusted age for prematurity. Participants were included if they were enrolled in Gastrointestinal Risk Factors for Wheezing in Premature Infants, born 32(0/7)-34(6/7) weeks' GA, and completed the 12-month questionnaire. We compared rates of recurrent wheezing, respiratory medication use, and health care use before (Epoch 1) and after (Epoch 2) the 2009 administration policy change.   RESULTS A total of 165 infants met inclusion criteria. There was a significant increase in recurrent wheezing in Epoch 2 (46.2%) vs Epoch 1 (28.8%) (OR 2.22 [95% CI 1.08-4.53], P = .03). There was a nonsignificant increase in visits to the emergency department in Epoch 2 (27.4%) vs Epoch 1 (15.3%) (OR 2.12 [95% CI 0.91-4.96], P = .08). There were no differences in hospital admissions or respiratory medication use.   CONCLUSIONS Infants born 32(0/7)-34(6/7) weeks' GA treated after the American Academy of Pediatrics administration policy change in 2009 had a greater incidence of recurrent wheezing than those treated according to the previous policy. It will be important to track rates of recurrent wheezing after the 2014 administration policy, because it may be an important factor in future cost-effectiveness analyses.
The aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to synthesize the available evidence on embedded family therapy interventions in pediatrics and impacts on parental mental health and family functioning outcomes. The Cochrane Collaboration guidelines for systematic reviews and meta-analysis were used for this study. Six electronic databases were searched for randomized controlled trials and cluster randomized trials. The Cochrane Collaboration's Risk of Bias Tool and GRADE system were used to rate the quality of evidence of the included studies. The primary outcomes included parental distress, parental depressive symptoms, and dysfunctional parent-child interaction. Fixed effects models showed statistically significant reductions in parental distress at 6-month and 12-month post-intervention in favor of the intervention group. Family therapy model, intervention level, delivery modality, and dosage moderated intervention impacts on parental distress. Fixed effects models showed statistically significant reductions in parental depressive symptoms and in dysfunctional parent-child interaction in favor of the intervention group. Family therapy interventions can be successfully embedded in general pediatric primary care, and intended outcomes are achieved in this setting. Recommendations for future research and implications for policy development are discussed.
In the United States of America alone, ~14,000 children are hospitalised annually with acute heart failure. The science and art of caring for these patients continues to evolve. The International Pediatric Heart Failure Summit of Johns Hopkins All Children's Heart Institute was held on 4 and 5 February, 2015. The 2015 International Pediatric Heart Failure Summit of Johns Hopkins All Children's Heart Institute was funded through the Andrews/Daicoff Cardiovascular Program Endowment, a philanthropic collaboration between All Children's Hospital and the Morsani College of Medicine at the University of South Florida (USF). Sponsored by All Children's Hospital Andrews/Daicoff Cardiovascular Program, the Johns Hopkins All Children's Heart Institute International Pediatric Heart Failure Summit assembled leaders in clinical and scientific disciplines related to paediatric heart failure and created a multi-disciplinary 'think-tank'. Information about George R. Daicoff, MD, and Ed and Sarainne Andrews is provided in this introductory manuscript to the 2015 Supplement to Cardiology in the Young entitled: 'Proceedings of the 2015 International Pediatric Heart Failure Summit of Johns Hopkins All Children's Heart Institute'. Dr Daicoff founded the All Children's Hospital Pediatric Heart Surgery programme and directed this programme for over two decades. Sarainne Andrews made her generous bequest to All Children's Hospital in honour of her husband Ed and his friendship with Dr Daicoff in order to support cardiovascular surgery research efforts.
There has been a progressive evolution in systems of classification for cardiomyopathy, driven by advances in imaging modalities, disease recognition, and genetics, following initial clinical descriptions in the 1960s. A pathophysiological classification emerged and was endorsed by World Health Organisation Task Forces in 1980 and 1995: dilated, hypertrophic, restrictive, and arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathies; subdivided into idiopathic and disease-specific cardiomyopathies. Genetic advances have increasingly linked 'idiopathic' phenotypes to specific mutations, although most linkages exhibit highly variable or little genotype-phenotype correlation, confounded by age-dependent changes and varying penetrance. The following two dominant classification systems are currently in use, with advocates in both continents. First, American Heart Association (2006): 'A heterogeneous group of diseases of the myocardium associated with mechanical and/or electrical dysfunction that usually exhibit inappropriate ventricular hypertrophy or dilatation due to a variety of causes that frequently are genetic'. These are subdivided to those predominantly involving the heart - primary - due to genetic mutation, including ion channelopathies, acquired disease, or mixed; and those with systemic involvement in other organ systems - secondary. Second, European Society of Cardiology (2008): 'A myocardial disorder in which heart muscle is structurally and functionally abnormal sufficient to cause the observed myocardial abnormality', with subdivision to familial and non-familial, excluding ion channelopathies, and split to specific disease subtypes and idiopathic. Further differences exist in the definitions for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy; however, whichever high-level classification is used, the clinical reality remains phenotype driven. Clinical evaluation and diagnostic imaging dominate initial patient contact, revealing diagnostic red flags that determine further specific tests. Genetic testing is undertaken early. A recent attempt to harmonise these competing systems named the MOGE(S) system, based on descriptive logical nosology, currently remains unproven as a fully practical solution.
In the United States alone, 14,000 children are hospitalised annually with acute heart failure. The science and art of caring for these patients continues to evolve. The International Pediatric Heart Failure Summit of Johns Hopkins All Children's Heart Institute was held on February 4 and 5, 2015. The 2015 International Pediatric Heart Failure Summit of Johns Hopkins All Children's Heart Institute was funded through the Andrews/Daicoff Cardiovascular Program Endowment, a philanthropic collaboration between All Children's Hospital and the Morsani College of Medicine at the University of South Florida (USF). Sponsored by All Children's Hospital Andrews/Daicoff Cardiovascular Program, the International Pediatric Heart Failure Summit assembled leaders in clinical and scientific disciplines related to paediatric heart failure and created a multi-disciplinary 'think-tank'. The purpose of this manuscript is to summarise the lessons from the 2015 International Pediatric Heart Failure Summit of Johns Hopkins All Children's Heart Institute, to describe the 'state of the art' of the treatment of paediatric cardiac failure, and to discuss future directions for research in the domain of paediatric cardiac failure.
Cardiomyopathy frequently has a genetic basis. In adults, mutations in genes encoding components of the sarcomere, cytoskeleton, or desmosome are frequent genetic causes of cardiomyopathy. Although children share these causes, ~30% of children have an underlying metabolic, syndromic, or neuromuscular condition causing their cardiomyopathy, making the aetiologies more diverse in children as compared with adults. Although some children present with obvious signs or symptoms of metabolic, syndromic, or neuromuscular disease, other cases may be quite subtle, requiring a high level of suspicion in order to diagnose them. In general, the younger the child, the more extensive the differential. Advantages of identifying the underlying genetic cause of cardiomyopathy in the paediatric population include confirming the diagnosis in ambiguous cases, facilitating appropriate surveillance and management of cardiac and extra-cardiac diseases, providing prognostic information, and establishing the genetic basis in the family, thereby allowing the identification of at-risk relatives and institution of appropriate family screening as indicated. For these reasons, genetic testing is increasingly recognised as standard of care, and guidelines for genetic counselling, testing, and incorporation of family-based risk assessment have been established. Therapies aimed at treating specific genetic aetiologies of cardiomyopathy are emerging and are exciting new developments that require increasingly sophisticated approaches to diagnosis. As genetic testing capabilities continue to expand technically, careful interpretation, knowledgeable clinical utilisation, and appropriate dissemination of genetic information are important and challenging components of clinical care.
Heart failure in children is a complex clinical syndrome with multiple aetiologies. The underlying disorders that lead to heart failure in children differ significantly from those in adults. Some clinical biomarkers for heart failure status and prognosis appear to be useful in both age groups. This review outlines the use and the present status of biomarkers for heart failure in paediatric cardiology. Furthermore, clinical scenarios in which development of new biomarkers might address management or prognosis are discussed. Finally, strategies for proteomic discovery of novel biomarkers and application to practice are described.
Stem cell therapy has the optimistic goal of regenerating the myocardium as defined by re-growth of lost or destroyed myocardium. As applied to patients with heart failure, many confuse or limit the regenerative definition to just improving myocardial function and/or decreasing myocardial scar formation, which may not be the most important clinical outcome to achieve in this promising field of molecular medicine. Many different stem cell-based therapies have been tested and have demonstrated a safe and feasible profile in adult patients with heart failure, but with varied efficacious end points reported. Although not achieved as of yet, the encompassing goal to regenerate the heart is still believed to be within reach using these cell-based therapies in adult patients with heart failure, as the first-generation therapies are now being tested in different phases of clinical trials. Similar efforts to foster the translation of stem cell therapy to children with heart failure have, however, been limited. In this review, we aim to summarise the findings from pre-clinical models and clinical experiences to date that have focussed on the evaluation of stem cell therapy in children with heart failure. Finally, we present methodological considerations pertinent to the design of a stem cell-based trial for children with heart failure, as they represent a population of patients with very different sets of issues when compared with adult patients. As has been taught by many learned clinicians, children are not small adults!
Acute heart failure is a common and serious complication of congenital and acquired heart disease, and it is associated with significant morbidity, mortality, and costs. When a patient is admitted to the hospital with acute heart failure, there are several important goals for the hospital admission, including maintaining adequate perfusion, establishing the underlying aetiology for the heart failure, patient and family education, and discharge from the hospital in a stable condition. The pathway to home discharge is variable and may include inotropic therapy, mechanical circulatory support, and/or heart transplantation. This review will cover the epidemiology, presentation, and management of acute heart failure in children.
This review offers a critical-care perspective on the pathophysiology, monitoring, and management of acute heart failure syndromes in children. An in-depth understanding of the cardiovascular physiological disturbances in this population of patients is essential to correctly interpret clinical signs, symptoms and monitoring data, and to implement appropriate therapies. In this regard, the myocardial force-velocity relationship, the Frank-Starling mechanism, and pressure-volume loops are discussed. A variety of monitoring modalities are used to provide insight into the haemodynamic state, clinical trajectory, and response to treatment. Critical-care treatment of acute heart failure is based on the fundamental principles of optimising the delivery of oxygen and minimising metabolic demands. The former may be achieved by optimising systemic arterial oxygen content and the variables that determine cardiac output: heart rate and rhythm, preload, afterload, and contractility. Metabolic demands may be decreased by a number of ways including positive pressure ventilation, temperature control, and sedation. Mechanical circulatory support should be considered for refractory cases. In the near future, monitoring modalities may be improved by the capture and analysis of complex clinical data such as pressure waveforms and heart rate variability. Using predictive modelling and streaming analytics, these data may then be used to develop automated, real-time clinical decision support tools. Given the barriers to conducting multi-centre trials in this population of patients, the thoughtful analysis of data from multi-centre clinical registries and administrative databases will also likely have an impact on clinical practice.
Heart failure in children can result from a wide range of aetiologies and can manifest in systolic and/or diastolic dysfunction. Echocardiography is the primary test for the diagnosis and follow-up of children with heart failure. In this article, we critically review standard echocardiographic measurements that have been shown to have prognostic importance in children with various types of heart failure. Each of the common forms of cardiomyopathy that is encountered in childhood--dilated, hypertrophic, restrictive, left ventricular non-compaction, and arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy--is discussed separately. Special attention is paid to the failing right ventricle, both in the systemic and in the sub-pulmonary position, to the failing univentricular heart, and to the assessment of diastolic function in children.
Over the past decade, new echocardiographic techniques such as three-dimensional echocardiography and the imaging of myocardial deformation (strain) have been developed, and are increasingly used in clinical practice. In this article, we describe the rationale and methodology, review available guidelines for practice, and discuss the advantages and limitations of each of these modalities. When available, we have also summarised the scientific evidence for the clinical application of these techniques to detect heart failure in children.
Cardiovascular complications are among the leading causes of morbidity and mortality among survivors of childhood cancer, after cancer relapse and secondary malignancies. Although advances in cancer treatment have improved the 5-year survival rates, the same treatments, such as anthracyclines, that cure cancer also increase the risk for adverse cardiovascular effects. Anthracycline-related cardiotoxicity in survivors of childhood cancer is progressive and can take years to develop, initially presenting as sub-clinical cardiac abnormalities that, if left undetected or untreated, can lead to heart failure, myocardial infarction, or other clinical cardiac dysfunction. A higher cumulative dose of anthracycline is associated with cardiotoxicity in children; however, sub-clinical cardiac abnormalities are evident at lower doses with longer follow-up, suggesting that there is no 'safe' dose of anthracycline. Other risk factors include female sex, younger age at diagnosis, black race, trisomy 21, longer time since treatment, and the presence of pre-existing cardiovascular disease and co-morbidities. Cardioprotective strategies during treatment are limited in children. Enalapril provides only temporary cardioprotection, whereas continuous anthracycline infusion extends none. On the other hand, dexrazoxane successfully prevents or reduces anthracycline-related cardiotoxicity in children with cancer, without increased risks for recurrence of primary or second malignancies or reductions in anti-tumour efficacy. With more childhood cancer survivors now reaching adulthood, it is vital to understand the adverse effects of cancer treatment on the cardiovascular system and their long-term consequences to identify and establish optimal prevention and management strategies that balance oncologic efficacy with long-term safety.
Heart transplantation offers excellent survival benefit to children with end-stage heart failure. With its success, the number of potential recipients continues to exceed the number of available donors. Developing strategies to safely increase donor utilisation is crucial to decreasing wait-list mortality. A new paediatric heart allocation policy is set to be implemented with the goal of prioritising the most urgent listed candidates. Owing to excellent outcomes of ABO-incompatible heart transplantation, the sickest infants will soon receive priority for heart offers irrespective of blood group. Allosensitisation poses unique challenges within the paediatric population; ongoing multi-centre studies are poised to refine our understanding of key risk factors and optimal treatment strategies. Biomarkers for acute cellular rejection, such as donor-specific cell-free DNA, and cardiac allograft vasculopathy, such as VEGF-A, may lead to a decreased need for invasive screening. Ultimately, well-designed and executed randomised control trials of post-transplant immunosuppression are required to improve long-term outcomes after paediatric heart transplantation.
Extrapolating cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) to pediatric patients with heart failure has at times been difficult given the heterogeneity of pediatric cardiomyopathies, varying congenital heart disease (CHD) substrates, and the fact that most pediatric heart failure patients have right bundle branch block (RBBB) as opposed to LBBB. Yet, despite these limitations a number of multi-center retrospective studies in North America and Europe have identified some data to suggest that certain sub-populations tend to respond positively to CRT. In order to address some of the heterogeneity it is helpful to subdivide pediatric and young adult patients with CHD into four potential groups: (1) CRT for chronic RV pacing, (2) dilated cardiomyopathies, (3) pulmonary right ventricles, and (4) systemic right ventricles. The chronic RV paced group, especially long-standing RV apical pacing, with ventricular dyssynchrony has consistently shown to be the group that best responds to a proactive resynchronization course. CRT therapy in pulmonary right ventricles such as post-op tetralogy of Fallot have shown some promise and may be considered especially if there is evidence of concomitant left ventricular dysfunction with an electrical dyssynchrony. Patients with systemic right ventricles such as post-atrial baffle surgery or congenitally corrected transposition reportedly do well with CRT in the presence of both inter-ventricular and intra-ventricular dyssynchrony. There is little doubt that moving forward to best way to identify which pediatric patients with heart failure will respond to CRT, will require a collaborative effort between the electrophysiologist and the echocardiographer to identify appropriate candidates with electrical and mechanical dyssynchrony.
Paediatric heart transplantation has evolved over the last 3 decades. The research group, Pediatric Heart Transplant Study, has been in step with that evolution over the nearly 20 years of its existence by utilising its registry to contribute a wealth of clinical research to the field. The highlights of its studies will be presented in this review.
Cardiomyopathy is a rare disorder of the heart muscle, affecting 1.13 cases per 100,000 children, from birth to 18 years of age. Cardiomyopathy is the leading cause of heart transplantation in children over the age of 1. The Pediatric Cardiomyopathy Registry funded in 1994 by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute was established to examine the epidemiology of the disease in children below 18 years of age. More than 3500 children across the United States and Canada have been enrolled in the Pediatric Cardiomyopathy Registry, which has followed-up these patients until death, heart transplantation, or loss to follow-up. The Pediatric Cardiomyopathy Registry has provided the most in-depth illustration of this disease regarding its aetiology, clinical course, associated risk factors, and patient outcomes. Data from the registry have helped in guiding the clinical management of cardiomyopathy in children under 18 years of age; however, questions still remain regarding the most clinically effective diagnostic and treatment approaches for these patients. Future directions of the registry include the use of next-generation whole-exome sequencing and cardiac biomarkers to identify aetiology-specific treatments and improve diagnostic strategies. This article provides a brief synopsis of the work carried out by the Pediatric Cardiomyopathy Registry since its inception, including the current knowledge on the aetiologies, outcomes, and treatments of cardiomyopathy in children.
In 2004, practice guidelines for the management of heart failure in children by Rosenthal and colleagues were published in conjunction with the International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation. These guidelines have not been updated or reviewed since that time. In general, there has been considerable controversy as to the utility and purpose of clinical practice guidelines, but there is general recognition that the relentless progress of medicine leads to the progressive irrelevance of clinical practice guidelines that do not undergo periodic review and updating. Paediatrics and paediatric cardiology, in particular, have had comparatively minimal participation in the clinical practice guidelines realm. As a result, most clinical practice guidelines either specifically exclude paediatrics from consideration, as has been the case for the guidelines related to cardiac failure in adults, or else involve clinical practice guidelines committees that include one or two paediatric cardiologists and produce guidelines that cannot reasonably be considered a consensus paediatric opinion. These circumstances raise a legitimate question as to whether the International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation paediatric heart failure guidelines should be re-reviewed. The time, effort, and expense involved in producing clinical practice guidelines should be considered before recommending an update to the International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation Paediatric Heart Failure guidelines. There are specific areas of rapid change in the evaluation and management of heart failure in children that are undoubtedly worthy of updating. These domains include areas such as use of serum and imaging biomarkers, wearable and implantable monitoring devices, and acute heart failure management and mechanical circulatory support. At the time the International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation guidelines were published, echocardiographic tissue Doppler, 3 dimensional imaging, and strain and strain rate were either novel or non-existent and have now moved into the main stream. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) had very limited availability, and since that time imaging and assessment of myocardial iron content, delayed gadolinium enhancement, and extracellular volume have moved into the mainstream. The only devices discussed in the International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation guidelines were extracorporeal membrane oxygenators, pacemakers, and defibrillators. Since that time, ventricular assist devices have become mainstream. Despite the relative lack of randomised controlled trials in paediatric heart failure, advances continue to occur. These advances warrant implementation of an update and review process, something that is best done under the auspices of the national and international cardiology societies. A joint activity that includes the International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation, American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association, the Association for European Paediatric and Congenital Cardiology (AEPC), European Society of Cardiology, Canadian Cardiovascular Society, and others will have more credibility than independent efforts by any of these organisations.
Numerous data sets collect information on patients with paediatric cardiovascular disease, including paediatric heart failure and transplant patients. This review discusses methodologies available for linking and integrating information across data sets, which may help facilitate answering important questions in the field of paediatric heart failure and transplant that cannot be answered with individual data sets or single-centre data alone.
The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, of the National Institutes of Health, is committed to supporting research in paediatric heart failure. The Institute's support of paediatric heart failure research includes both investigator-initiated grants and Institute initiatives. There were 107 funded grants in paediatric heart failure over the past 20 years in basic, translational and clinical research, technology development, and support of registries. Such research includes a broad diversity of scientific topics and approaches. The Institute also supports several initiatives for paediatric heart failure, including the Pediatric Circulatory Support Program, the Pumps for Kids, Infants, and Neonates (PumpKIN) Program, PediMACS, and the Pediatric Heart Network. This review article describes the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's past, present, and future efforts to promote a better understanding of paediatric heart failure, with the ultimate goal of improving outcomes.
Recent regulatory initiatives in the United States of America and Europe have transformed the paediatric clinical trials landscape by significantly increasing capital investment and paediatric trial volume. The purpose of this manuscript was to review the impact of these initiatives on the paediatric cardiovascular trials landscape when compared with other paediatric sub-specialties. We also evaluate factors that may have contributed to the success or failure of recent major paediatric cardiovascular trials so as to inform the optimal design and conduct of future trials in the field.
OBJECTIVE Mild bleeding symptoms are commonly seen in the general population. The aim of this study was to determine the final clinical and laboratory features of children referred for a first evaluation with a suspected bleeding disorder in the pediatric outpatient clinic of 캅stanbul University.   MATERIALS AND METHODS The medical records of 26,737 outpatients who were admitted to the Division of Ambulatory Pediatrics between 31 October 2011 and 31 October 2012 were evaluated retrospectively. Ninety-nine patients were initially diagnosed as having probable bleeding disorders and were followed up. The symptoms of bleeding in addition to coagulation tests were analyzed.   RESULTS Of the 99 patients, 52 (52.5%) were male and 47 were female, and the mean age of the entire study group was 9.1짹4.1 years (minimum-maximum: 2-18 years). Major bleeding symptoms were epistaxis in 36 patients (36.4%), easy bruising in 32 (32.3%), and menorrhagia in 6 (6.1%). After initial tests ordered by the pediatrician, 36 of 99 patients (36.4%) were diagnosed as having bleeding disorders that included von Willebrand disease in 12 (12.1%), hemophilia A or B in 9 (9.1%), and other rare factor deficiencies in 9 (9.1%). Six patients (6.1%) were found to have combined deficiencies. Seven of 36 patients had a family history of bleeding.   CONCLUSION Among the patients referred for bleeding disorders, 36.4% were diagnosed with a bleeding disorder with the help of primary screening tests ordered in the outpatient clinic.
Cryptorchidism is the most common disorder in paediatric surgery in the Western world and a major risk factor for subfertility and malignancy. In 2009, German national guidelines were changed to recommend that treatment for undescended testes should be completed by the age of 1 instead of 2. However, the share of boys undergoing orchidopexy for cryptorchidism within the first year of life has only marginally increased in response to the guideline of the Association of the Scientific Medical Societies in Germany (AWMF). The number of orchidopexies performed in children below the age of 1 is too low both in Germany as well as internationally. The majority of primary care physicians treating children do not seem to be aware of this discrepancy between guideline recommendations and average actual age at orchidopexy. Moreover, a considerable number of cryptorchidism cases seem to be due to secondary ascent of the testis - an underappreciated condition that usually occurs at school age. Consequently, the timing of orchidopexy in primary undescended testes must be optimised. Therefore, education of parents and primary care physicians regarding the necessity of early orchidopexy and frequent testicular examinations even beyond infancy is mandatory to improve the prognosis of cryptorchidism regarding subfertility and malignancy. Further studies are needed to clarify the reasons for the large number of late orchidopexies.
BACKGROUND The availability of a valid and reliable instrument that accurately assesses the level of fatigue among childhood cancer survivors is a prerequisite for developing and evaluating interventions designed to reduce fatigue. There is a lack of such an instrument for use in the Hong Kong Chinese context.   OBJECTIVE The aim of the study was to examine the psychometric properties of the Chinese version of the Fatigue Scale for Children. In particular, confirmatory factor analysis was conducted to examine its factorial structure.   METHODS A convenience sample of 200 Hong Kong Chinese children surviving cancer was recruited in an outpatient clinic. The psychometric properties of the Chinese version of the Fatigue Scale for Children were assessed.   RESULTS The content validity index was 0.83. There was a strong positive correlation between children's level of fatigue and depressive symptoms (r = 0.53) and a strong negative correlation between children's levels of fatigue and quality of life (r = -0.54). The mean levels of fatigue of the survivor group were significantly lower than those of those hospitalized with cancer, but significantly higher than those of their healthy counterparts. Confirmatory factor analysis indicated that there were 3 factors underlying the Chinese version of the Fatigue Scale for Children.   CONCLUSION The study adds further evidence that the Chinese version of the Fatigue Scale for Children can be used as a reliable and valid tool in assessing cancer-related fatigue among Chinese children who have survived cancer.   IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE The translated scale can be used to develop and evaluate appropriate fatigue reduction interventions.
Since its inceptions, the standard of best interest of the child was linked to decisions about suspend life-sustaining treatments in neonatal units and evaluation of treatments applied to children in terms of their quality of life. This origin has conditioned the interpretation of the standard from two extremes: a vitalistic one, and a non vitalistic interpretation that triumphed in Western bioethics and has led to the consecration of the standard of best interest of the child in the Convention on the Rights of the Child of United Nations. A detailed analysis reveals a simplistic, utilitarian and proportionalist standard, which change the basis of parenthood. We therefore believe that the standard of the best interest of the child is not the best for the child in neonatal intensive care units and especially not in the process of withhold or withdrawal life-sustaining treatments.
Dr. Hanka Weinberg-Heruti, a pediatrician at the Ha'Emek Hospital and a member of Kibbutz Merchavia is regarded in the history of medicine in Eretz Israel as the first female physician in the Kibbutz Ha'Artzi movement-Hashomer Hatsa'ir, and one of the founders of children's medicine in the country. Dr. Weinberg-Heruti was able to break the accepted norms of the period and prove 'you could be both a hospital doctor and a loyal kibbutz member'. This was far from simple for there was an iron rule in that kibbutz movement: 'Every member must perform physical labour to build the kibbutz and to work in its framework. This principle is inviolable nor can one deviate from the norm'. Dr. Weinberg-Heruti dared to break that rule and prove that a successful combination of both her purposes in life was possible. Thus, the aim of the article is twofold: to survey her unique position as hospital doctor and faithful 'kibbutznik', who dared to break the 'holy' principle at the ideological roots of kibbutz life--that it was unthinkable for a member to refrain from physical labour. Secondly, to illuminate her medical career as pediatrician in Ha'Emek Hospital, and describe the innovations she introduced to the children's ward, survey her groundbreaking research, that examined the influence of the Beit Shean Valley climate on infant development. Her conclusions dramatically affected the treatment and upbringing of children in that climate, and were adopted not only in local kibbutzim but throughout the country.
QUESTION Atopic dermatitis (AD) (eczema) is very common in childhood. Parents are often concerned that food allergy plays a role in their child's eczema presentation and practise elimination diets for symptom control. Should I recommend that children with AD eliminate cow's milk or eggs from their diets?   ANSWER There is insufficient evidence about the benefit of eliminating cow's milk in unselected patients with AD. Some evidence suggests that egg elimination might benefit those children with AD who are suspected of being allergic to eggs and who are sensitized to eggs; however, more research is needed in this population to guide the use of food elimination. Prolonged elimination diets that are not physician guided also put patients at risk of nutritional deficiencies and failure to thrive, and might actually contribute to the development of clinical food allergy.
As part of the reorganisation of a paediatric consultations department, the observation of the reception staff and its analysis opened up a discussion around the hospital's usual approach of separating administrative and nursing activities. Focusing on theoretical concepts of clinical analysis of work, the fonction of the reception staff was analysed in detail, revealing at the same time its invisible, often indescribable character.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE With >473,000 annual emergency department visits for children with traumatic brain injuries in the United States, the risk of ionizing radiation exposure during CT examinations is a real concern. The purpose of this study was to assess the validity of rapid MR imaging to replace CT in the follow-up imaging of patients with head trauma.   MATERIALS AND METHODS A retrospective review of 103 pediatric patients who underwent initial head CT and subsequent follow-up rapid MR imaging between January 2010 and July 2013 was performed. Patients had minor head injuries (Glasgow Coma Scale, >13) that required imaging. Initial head CT was performed, with follow-up rapid MR imaging completed within 48 hours. A board-certified neuroradiologist, blinded to patient information and scan parameters, then independently interpreted the randomized cases.   RESULTS There was almost perfect agreement in the ability to detect extra-axial hemorrhage on rapid MR imaging and CT (觀 = 0.84, P < .001). Evaluation of hemorrhagic contusion/intraparenchymal hemorrhage demonstrated a moderate level of agreement between MR imaging and CT (觀 = 0.61, P < .001). The ability of MR imaging to detect a skull fracture also showed a substantial level of agreement with CT (觀 = 0.71, P < .001). Detection of diffuse axonal injury demonstrated a slight level of agreement between MR imaging and CT (觀 = 0.154, P = .04). However, the overall predictive agreement for the detection of an axonal injury was 91%.   CONCLUSIONS Rapid MR imaging is a valid technique for detecting traumatic cranial injuries and an adequate examination for follow-up imaging in lieu of repeat CT.
OBJECTIVES To evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) for extrahepatic portal venous obstruction with recurrent variceal bleeding in children.   METHODS From November 2005 to December 2013, 28 consecutive paediatric patients with extrahepatic portal venous obstruction treated with TIPS for recurrent variceal bleeding refractory to medical/endoscopic therapy and/or surgical treatment in a tertiary-care centre were followed until last clinical evaluation or death. The median follow-up time was 36.0 months (range 4.0-106.0 months).   RESULTS Seventeen boys and 11 girls of ages 7.1 to 17.9 years (median 12.3 years) weighing 19.0 to 62.0 kg (median 33.5 kg) were treated. TIPS was successfully placed in 17 of 28 (60.7%) patients via a transjugular approach alone (n=4), a combined transjugular/transhepatic approach (n=9), or a combined transjugular/transsplenic approach (n=4). Shunt dysfunction occurred in 6 of 17 (35.3%) patients. The cumulative 1- and 3-year free-from-variceal-rebleeding rates in TIPS success group were higher than those in TIPS failure group (75.0% and 67.5% vs 45.5% and 18.2%, respectively, P=0.0075). Compared with the TIPS failure group, the improvements in the height-for-age z scores were greater in the TIPS success group (P=0.017). Procedure-related complication occurred in 1 patient (3.6%), and no episode of post-TIPS hepatic encephalopathy occurred in any patient. Except 1 patient in the TIPS success group died at 115 postoperative days, all patients were alive.   CONCLUSIONS TIPS is feasible and effective in children with extrahepatic portal venous obstruction and recurrent variceal bleeding. TIPS could represent a less-invasive alternative to traditional surgical portosystemic shunting or a valuable treatment option if surgery and endoscopic treatment failed.
UNLABELLED Family centered rounds (FCR) occur at the bedside and include the patient and their family when creating a daily medical care plan. Despite recommendations that family centered rounds (FCR) with nursing staff be standard practice, nurses were frequently absent from FCR at our institution.   OBJECTIVE To increase nurse attendance on hospitalist FCR to 80% in three months. Secondary outcomes were to investigate the relationship between nurse-to-patient ratio and nurse attendance, and to assess for change in perception toward FCR.   METHODS This resident driven interrupted time series study included a focus group to identify barriers to nurse attendance on FCR, four plan-do-study-act cycles, and surveys to assess for changes in perceptions toward FCR. Control charts, SHEWHART rules, linear regression and chi squared analysis were used for data analysis.   RESULTS Nurse attendance on FCR improved from 30% to 59%. There was no correlation between nurse-to-patient ratio and nurse attendance on FCR. Surveys indicated increase in the perception that it is helpful to have a nurse present at FCR.   CONCLUSIONS A resident driven quality improvement project can increase nurse presence on FCR.
Organ donation after circulatory death (DCD) has experienced a revival worldwide over the past 20혻years, and is now widely practiced for kidney transplantation. Some previous concerns about these organs such as the high incidence of delayed graft function have been alleviated through evidence from adult studies. There are now a number of large adult cohorts reporting favorable 5-year outcomes for DCD kidney transplants, comparable to kidneys donated after brain death (DBD). This has resulted in a marked increase in the use of DCD kidneys for adult recipients in some countries and an increase in the overall number of kidney transplants. In contrast, the uptake of DCD kidneys for pediatric recipients is still low and concerns still exist over the longer-term outcomes of DCD organs. In view of the data from adult practice and the poor outcomes for children who stay on dialysis, DCD kidney transplantation should be offered as an option for children on the kidney transplant waiting list.
BACKGROUND Complete and transparent reporting of clinical trial protocols and reports ensures that these documents are useful to all stakeholders, that bias is minimized, and that the research is not wasted. However, current studies repeatedly conclude that pediatric trial protocols and reports are not appropriately reported. Guidelines like SPIRIT (Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations for Interventional Trials) and CONSORT (Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials) may improve reporting, but do not offer guidance on issues unique to pediatric trials. This paper reports two systematic reviews conducted to build the evidence base for the development of pediatric reporting guideline extensions: 1) SPIRIT-Children (SPIRIT-C) for pediatric trial protocols, and 2) CONSORT-Children (CONSORT-C) for pediatric trial reports.   METHOD MEDLINE, the Cochrane Methodology Register, and reference lists of included studies were searched. Publications of any type were eligible if they included explicit recommendations or empirical evidence for the reporting of potential items in a pediatric protocol (SPIRIT-C systematic review) or trial report (CONSORT-C systematic review). Study characteristics, recommendations and evidence for pediatric extension items were extracted. Recurrent themes in the recommendations and evidence were identified and synthesized. All steps were conducted by two reviewers.   RESULTS For the SPIRIT-C and CONSORT-C systematic reviews 366 and 429 publications were included, respectively. Recommendations were identified for 48 of 50 original reporting items and sub-items from SPIRIT, 15 of 20 potential SPIRIT-C reporting items, all 37 original CONSORT items and sub-items, and 16 of 22 potential CONSORT-C reporting items. The following overarching themes of evidence to support or refute the utility of reporting items were identified: transparency; reproducibility; interpretability; usefulness; internal validity; external validity; reporting bias; publication bias; accountability; scientific soundness; and research ethics.   CONCLUSION These systematic reviews are the first to systematically gather evidence and recommendations for the reporting of specific items in pediatric protocols and trials. They provide useful and translatable evidence on which to build pediatric extensions to the SPIRIT and CONSORT reporting guidelines. The resulting SPIRIT-C and CONSORT-C will provide guidance to the authors of pediatric protocols and reports, respectively, helping to alleviate concerns of inappropriate and inconsistent reporting, and reduce research waste.
During this year's 33rd annual meeting in Leipzig, Germany, the European Society of Paediatric Infectious Diseases (ESPID) jointly together with the European Scientific Working group on Influenza (ESWI), organized a staged debate on the motion of universal annual immunization of children against influenza as a cost-effective health intervention in Europe. Six invited speakers, all experts in the field of influenza vaccination, who were not necessary confident with their given position of pro or contra, battled each other with short oral presentations to convince the audience to vote for or against the motion.
PURPOSE Early identification and referral have been shown to improve long-term outcomes for children with disabilities. However, the number of children enrolled in early intervention services continues to be lower than the number of children confirmed to be developmentally delayed later in life. This study investigated the pattern of developmental surveillance and referral practices of pediatricians in a traditionally medically underserved border community.   DESCRIPTION An online survey was created by members of a community/academic partnership. Emails were followed up with a personal contact to doctor's offices to increase the response rate.   ASSESSMENT Response rate for the survey was 26.7 %. Most respondents reported using a combination of formal screening tools and parent interviews to complete developmental screenings in their practice with the Modified Checklist of Autism in Toddlers being the most commonly used tool.   CONCLUSION Although most respondents reported referring children for the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act Part C services, gaps were identified in available services and in the referral process that need to be addressed. Additionally, future studies need to evaluate the efficacy of a referral and feedback system to improve earlier access to intervention services for children with disabilities.
Feverish illnesses commonly affect children and are the second most frequent reason for a child to be admitted to hospital. Most cases are viral in origin, usually with a good prognosis. Fever can be caused by severe and rapidly progressive illness which needs urgent referral to hospital for potentially life-saving treatment, and community practitioners must be able to identify such cases showing 'red flag'features. The fear of serious disease among parents and carers may result in 'fever phobia' leading to minor illnesses being managed inappropriately. Community practitioners are well placed to reassure and support families, and to provide education regarding the facts about fever, the appropriate use of antipyretic medication, how to avoid dehydration, and the beneficial role of immunisation in preventing infection.
BACKGROUND Pediatric dermatology has always played an important role in children's healthcare, but there has been a shortage of pediatric dermatologists nationwide for more than a decade, and few metrics of productivity and practice patterns exist. This study sought to provide insight into these and other factors of the pediatric dermatology workforce.   METHODS Electronic surveys were distributed to all 226 U.S. board-certified pediatric dermatologists.   RESULTS A total of 108/226 (48%) of the electronic surveys were returned. Sixty percent of respondents were employed full- or part-time in academic environments and 81% were salaried. Respondents reported that children constituted 79.5% of their practice, and the average respondent spent 3.8 days/week treating 92.6 patients, considerably lower than the 136.3 patients/week that the average general dermatologist sees. The academic practice environment was associated with children constituting a larger proportion of the practice (p < 0.001), fewer patients seen per week (85.9, p < 0.001), and longer median new patient wait times (60 vs 15 days) than in other practice environments. Private practitioners saw significantly more patients per week than those in academic environments (112.7, p = 0.005). Male and female practitioners reported approximately equal patient care days per week, similar wait times, and similar proportions of children in their practices.   CONCLUSIONS This assessment revealed productivity and practice pattern differences between the various pediatric dermatology practice environments and between pediatric and general dermatology. This study provides important information for workforce planning and care availability assessments and baseline information for future studies.
BACKGROUND Autoimmune blistering diseases (AIBDs) are rare in children and their prevalence in Singapore is unclear. We aimed to investigate the clinical and immunopathologic characteristics of children diagnosed with AIBDs in Singapore.   MATERIALS AND METHODS The clinical and histology databases at the National Skin Centre in Singapore were searched to identify patients younger than 18 years old diagnosed with an AIBD from January 1, 1998, through December 31, 2012. Patient demographic characteristics, presentation, triggers, investigations, treatments, and disease course were analyzed.   RESULTS Twelve patients with AIBDs were identified; five (41.7%) had linear immunoglobulin A disease (LAD); two (16.7%) each had pemphigus vulgaris (PV), bullous pemphigoid, and bullous systemic lupus erythematosus; and one (8.3%) had pemphigus foliaceus. Four (33.3%) were female and eight (66.7%) male. The mean age of onset was 8.7 years (range 2-17 years). Most patients were treated with steroids and adjuvant immunosuppressants. Intravenous rituximab was used effectively in a patient with recalcitrant PV. The mean follow-up was 2.35 years (range 0.17-7.33 years). As of the last follow-up, four (33.3%) patients were in complete remission off therapy, two (16.7%) were in complete remission on therapy, four (33.3%) were in partial remission on therapy, and two (16.7%) were lost to follow-up.   CONCLUSION Consistent with the existing literature, our study shows that LAD is the most common cause of AIBDs in children. Although common in the West, dermatitis herpetiformis was not identified in the current study. Intravenous rituximab may be considered in recalcitrant childhood PV, but vigilant monitoring for side effects is crucial. Immunohistopathologic evaluation is important and repeat biopsies may be of value in patients with atypical disease courses.
Economic, environmental, and psychosocial needs are common and wide-ranging among families cared for in primary care settings. Still, pediatric care delivery models are not set up to systematically address these fundamental risks to health. We offer a roadmap to help structure primary care approaches to these needs through the development of comprehensive and effective collaborations between the primary care setting and community partners. We use Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs as a well-recognized conceptual model to organize, prioritize, and determine appropriate interventions that can be adapted to both small and large practices. Specifically, collaborations with community organizations expert in addressing issues commonly encountered in primary care centers can be designed and executed in a phased manner: (1) build the case for action through a family-centered risk assessment, (2) organize and prioritize risks and interventions, (3) develop and sustain interventions, and (4) operationalize interventions in the clinical setting. This phased approach to collaboration also includes shared vision, codeveloped plans for implementation and evaluation, resource alignment, joint reflection and adaptation, and shared decisions regarding next steps. Training, electronic health record integration, refinement by using quality improvement methods, and innovative use of clinical space are important components that may be useful in a variety of clinical settings. Successful examples highlight how clinical-community partnerships can help to systematically address a hierarchy of needs for children and families. Pediatricians and community partners can collaborate to improve the well-being of at-risk children by leveraging their respective strengths and shared vision for healthy families.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE Although nonphysician reentry transitions have been characterized in literature, little is known about the reentry physicians in general, or residents in particular. We conducted a qualitative study to explore pediatric residents' reentry, using reverse culture shock as a conceptual framework.   METHODS Eighteen pediatric residents who completed global health experiences in Africa (9 categorical residents with 1-month elective, 9 global child health residents with 12-month training) participated in interviews that included a card-sort to solicit emotional responses consistent with the conceptual framework. Data in the form of interview transcripts were coded and analyzed according to principles of grounded theory.   RESULTS All pediatric residents, despite variable time abroad, reported a range of emotional responses on reentry to residency. Global child health residents felt disconnection and frustration more intensely than categorical residents, whereas categorical residents felt invigoration more intensely than global child health residents. Although residents met with program leadership after their return, no resident described these meetings as a formal debriefing, and few described a deliberate strategy for processing emotions on reentry.   CONCLUSIONS Consistent with reverse culture shock, pediatric residents felt a range of emotions as they move toward a steady state of acculturating back into their residency program. Residency programs might consider creating safety nets to help cultivate support for residents when they reenter training.
BACKGROUND Quantification of acute severe complications of pediatric anesthesia is essential to plan clinical guidelines and educational curricula.   AIM Our aim was to identify complications in terms of frequency and outcomes.   METHODS We defined acute severe complications as an unexpected perioperative event, which without intervention by the anesthesiologist within 30혻min may lead to disability or death. A systematic search was performed using MEDLINE, EMBASE, and CINAHL. Screening and data extraction were performed independently. Assessment of bias was conducted using GRADE guidelines.   RESULTS Of 3002 abstracts, 25 met혻all inclusion criteria. The most common acute severe complications in pediatric anesthesia are related to airway management and respiratory system, followed by cardiovascular events. There was a great variation in reporting the methods, particularly poor definitions of diagnostic criteria for complications. Data were heterogeneous and pooled estimates may not be generalizable. Some studies failed to define potential source of bias, explain how missing data were addressed, describe acute severe complications, and had incomplete postoperative follow-up.   CONCLUSION The data on pediatric anesthesia acute severe complications are poorly defined with large variation in the specificity of diagnostic reporting even within studies. We suggest that it is vital for future studies in this area to be based on a standardized system of diagnostic reporting (possibly with a hierarchical system of coding) with adequate description of population details to describe heterogeneity of data.
Generally, pellets obtained from extrusion/spheronization, containing microcrystalline cellulose (MCC), do not disintegrate. An attempt has been made to develop melt-in-mouth pellets of taste-masked atomoxetine hydrochloride, using extrusion-spheronization, for pediatric patients. Melt-in-mouth pellets were prepared using extrusion-spheronization method and optimized using 3(3) FFD. MCC (X1, %), mannitol (X2, %) and Indion 414: Pharmaburst 500 ratio (X3, ratio) were the factors (independent variables) studied, whereas responses studied (dependent variables) were friability (Y1, %), yield (Y2, %) shape (Y3, roundness) in vitro disintegration time (Y4, seconds). The optimized formulation obtained from FFD was characterized for friability, shape and morphology, in vitro disintegration time, porosity, moisture uptake, in vitro release study and in vivo taste and disintegration time in healthy human volunteers. Randomized, two-treatment, two-sequence, two-period, single dose, crossover sensory evaluation study of taste-masked melt-in-mouth pellet was carried out in 10 healthy human subjects. A statistically significant polynomial mathematical relationship was generated between the factors and responses to obtain an optimized formulation. The optimized formulation was characterized (in vitro and in vivo) and exhibited a rapid drug release in vitro attributed to fast disintegration of pellets and high solubility of drug in 0.1 N HCl and buffer (pH 6.8). In vivo, 40% of volunteers ranked taste-masked optimized formulation as slightly bitter while 60% ranked it as no taste. The optimized pellets were conveniently administered in volunteers and exhibited rapid in-vivo disintegration in the oral cavity. Melt-in-mouth pellets can be a used as a platform technology for administering drugs to paediatric patients accurately and conveniently resulting in patient compliance.
UNLABELLED To evaluate how a positive environmental distraction intervention impacted pediatric radiography patient behavioral stress-responses, mood states, and parental satisfaction.   METHODS Behavioral observation, rating scales, surveys on 182 pediatric patients and their parents randomly assigned to three positive distraction levels (minimum, light, light and animation).   RESULTS Under interventional conditions, patients exhibited less low-stress coping behaviors (ps<0.001-0.007) and more verbal behaviors indicating positive affect (p=0.003); parents more favorably rated environmental pleasantness (ps<0.001), sense of environmental control (ps=0.002), and willingness to return and recommend the facility (ps=0.001-0.005).   CONCLUSION The intervention improved pediatric radiography experience but needs further investigation in more stressful settings.
The Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition in Peru, is one of the subspecialties of Pediatrics that has experienced one of the most significant growth in recent decades, however, to achieve this seat it should have passed a long way built through the efforts and talent hundreds of doctors for several generations. Its modern history began in 1981 with the creation of the first unit of the specialty in the National Institute of Child Health (INSN), followed by the establishment of the second specialization that contributed to its spread and progress of several hospitals in the country, and many of them now have a doctor of this specialty. Our purpose is to plant the foundations of that story, whose extension go beyond the space that allows us an article.
OBJECTIVE The purpose of this study was to determine whether radiologist-parent (guardian) consultation sessions for pediatric ultrasound with immediate disclosure of examination results if desired increases visit satisfaction, decreases anxiety, and increases understanding of the radiologist's role.   SUBJECTS AND METHODS Parents chaperoning any outpatient pediatric ultrasound were eligible and completed surveys before and after ultrasound examinations. Before the second survey, parents met with a pediatric radiologist on a randomized basis but could opt out and request or decline the consultation. Differences in anxiety and understanding of the radiologist's role before and after the examination were compared, and overall visit satisfaction measures were tabulated.   RESULTS Seventy-seven subjects participated, 71 (92%) of whom spoke to a radiologist, mostly on request. In the consultation group, the mean score (1, lowest; 4, highest) for overall experience was 3.8 짹 0.4 (SD), consultation benefit was 3.7 짹 0.6, and radiologist interaction was 3.7 짹 0.6. Demographics were not predictive of satisfaction with statistical significance in a multivariate model. Forty-six of 68 (68%) respondents correctly described the radiologist's role before consultation. The number increased to 60 (88%) after consultation, and the difference was statistically significant (p < 0.001). There was also a statistically significant decrease in mean anxiety score from 2.0 짹 1.0 to 1.5 짹 0.8 after consultation (p < 0.001). Sixty-four of 70 (91%) respondents indicated that they would prefer to speak with a radiologist during every visit.   CONCLUSION Radiologist consultation is well received among parents and associated with decreased anxiety and increased understanding of the radiologist's role. The results of this study support the value of routine radiologist-parent interaction for pediatric ultrasound.
Pediatric oncology psychosocial professionals collaborated with an interdisciplinary group of experts and stakeholders and developed evidence-based standards for pediatric psychosocial care. Given the breadth of research evidence and traditions of clinical care, 15 standards were derived. Each standard is based on a systematic review of relevant literature and used the AGREE II process to evaluate the quality of the evidence. This article describes the methods used to develop the standards and introduces the 15 articles included in this special issue. Established standards help ensure that all children with cancer and their families receive essential psychosocial care.
This study was conducted to assess the perception of US pediatric specialists of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) disease risk and determine their clinical practices regarding immunoprophylaxis for high-risk children. Separate surveys were sent to neonatologists, pediatricians, pediatric pulmonologists, and pediatric cardiologists. Data were collected using structured questions requiring quantitative responses. Most neonatologists and pediatricians (>82.7%) reported a high clinical need for RSV immunoprophylaxis in preterm infants <32 weeks' gestational age. Pediatric pulmonologists and pediatric cardiologists suggested that health conditions indicative of chronic lung disease of prematurity and hemodynamically significant congenital heart disease, respectively, confer eligibility for RSV immunoprophylaxis. Agreement with the changes in the 2014 American Academy of Pediatrics guidance for RSV immunoprophylaxis was mixed among respondents from the 4 specialties. Survey findings may provide a basis to improve education about risk for severe RSV disease and evaluate changes in physician use of RSV immunoprophylaxis based on the 2014 guidance.
Providing nutritional therapy via the gastrointestinal tract in patients in paediatric intensive care units (PICUs) is an effective method for delivering energy and other nutrients. In the event of contraindications to using this method, it is necessary to commence parenteral nutrition. In the present study, methods for nutritional treatments in critically ill children are presented, depending on the clinical situation.
INTRODUCTION Solving the childhood obesity problem will require strategies for changes in policy, the environment, the community, and the family. Filling the data gap for children younger than 4 years could facilitate interventions aimed at this critical age group. The objective of this study was to describe parents' and caregivers' perceptions of the healthfulness of their young child's diet and body weight and to assess their adherence to the American Academy of Pediatrics' 5-2-1-0 recommendations.   METHODS We conducted a descriptive analysis of parents' and caregivers' survey data for 887 infants younger than 12 months, 925 toddlers aged 12 to 23.9 months, and 1,461 preschoolers aged 24 to 47.9 months. Data were from the national, cross-sectional 2008 Feeding Infants and Toddlers Study (FITS).   RESULTS Most parents considered their child's weight to be about right but were more likely to think their child was underweight (8%-9%) than overweight (2%-3%). Most parents thought their child consumed enough fruits and vegetables: however, only 30% of preschoolers met the recommendation for 5 daily servings. Only 2% of toddlers met the recommendation for no screen time, whereas 79% of preschoolers met the recommendation to limit daily screen time to 2 hours or less. About 56% of toddlers and 71% of preschoolers met the recommendation of at least 1 hour of daily outdoor play. About 56% of toddlers and 52% of preschoolers met the recommendation to limit consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages.   CONCLUSION The FITS 2008 findings underscore the ongoing need for research on policies and strategies to prevent childhood obesity from infancy through preschool. Health care providers can play a vital role because they are an important and early point of contact for parents.
OBJECTIVE To summarize literature on the role of provider-patient interactions (PPI) in racial/ethnic health disparities and consider the relevance of PPI for understanding health disparities in pediatric psychology.   METHODS Topical review of literature focusing on health disparities and PPI in adult and pediatric populations.   RESULTS For adults, evidence is clear that racial/ethnic minorities experience poorer quality PPI, which may be associated with poorer health outcomes. In pediatric populations, the emerging literature indicates similar associations, and potential promising targets for intervention including information exchange, shared decision-making and patient-centered communication. PPI research in pediatric populations poses a number of methodological challenges including culturally and developmentally sensitive measurement of triadic (caregiver, patient, provider) interactions.   CONCLUSIONS Health disparities in PPI exist for racial/ethnic minority youth and may contribute to poorer health outcomes. Pediatric psychologists can make valuable contributions, given their expertise and role within medical settings. Research, clinical, and policy recommendations are discussed.
Improving the health of children in foster care requires close collaboration between pediatrics and the child welfare system. Propelled by recent health care and child welfare policy reforms, there is a strong foundation for more accountable, collaborative models of care. Over the last 2 decades health care reforms have driven greater accountability in outcomes, access to care, and integrated services for children in foster care. Concurrently, changes in child welfare legislation have expanded the responsibility of child welfare agencies in ensuring child health. Bolstered by federal legislation, numerous jurisdictions are developing innovative cross-system workforce and payment strategies to improve health care delivery and health care outcomes for children in foster care, including: (1) hiring child welfare medical directors, (2) embedding nurses in child welfare agencies, (3) establishing specialized health care clinics, and (4) developing tailored child welfare managed care organizations. As pediatricians engage in cross-system efforts, they should keep in mind the following common elements to enhance their impact: embed staff with health expertise within child welfare settings, identify long-term sustainable funding mechanisms, and implement models for effective information sharing. Now is an opportune time for pediatricians to help strengthen health care provision for children involved with child welfare.
PURPOSE Pediatricians generally need to treat adult patients who require long-term care for pediatric diseases. However, little is known about the characteristics of adult patients in pediatric wards. Using a national inpatient database, the aim of this study was to determine the clinical details of adult patients admitted to pediatric wards in Japanese acute-care hospitals.   METHODS We extracted all inpatients aged 19혻years who were admitted to pediatric departments in Japan from April 2012 to March 2013. We examined the patients' main diagnoses and the use of life-supporting home medical devices.   RESULTS Of 417,352 patients admitted to pediatric wards during the study period, we identified 4,729 (1.1%) adult patients. The major diagnoses of the adult patients were malignancy, congenital heart disease, epilepsy, and cerebral palsy. More than 35% of the patients with cerebral palsy had a tracheostomy tube, gastrostomy tube, home central venous alimentation, or home respirator. More than 20% of patients aged 40혻years in pediatric wards had adult diseases, including ischemic heart diseases, cerebrovascular diseases, and adult malignancy.   CONCLUSIONS Many adult patients in pediatric wards had adult diseases. It is essential to establish a disease-oriented support system for adults with chronic conditions that originated in their childhood.
OBJECTIVE To study the impact of the economic crisis on the families of the children who attend Primary Health Care and its relationship with their socioeconomic status.   PATIENTS AND METHODS Observational descriptive study was conducted by analysing the results of 453 questionnaires, given to the parents of children between 1 and 7 years old who attended 4 paediatric clinics in Madrid. The raw data was analysed, and comparisons between groups and multivariate analysis were performed.   RESULTS In the multivariate analysis, the variables related to the non-acquisition of prescribed medication are: lower income level OR=0.118, p<.0001 and lower educational level OR=0.464, p<.001; the variables related to the reduction of food expenditure are: lower income level OR=0.100, p<.0001 and a higher number of family members OR=1.308, p=.045; the variables related to anti-pneumococcal vaccination without public funding are: higher income level OR=2.170, p=.0001, higher educational level OR=1.835, p=.013, and not being an immigrant OR=0.532, p=.037. The presence of health problems from the beginning of the economic crisis is related to unemployment OR=4.079, p=.032, lower educational level R=0.678, p=.042, and income level OR=0.342, p<.0001. In all cases, the models achieved a statistical significance of p<.0001.   CONCLUSIONS The economic crisis has greater impact on the group with the lowest income level in all analysed variables. The lower educational level and higher number of family members has an impact on the reduction in food expenditure. The fact of being an immigrant has an impact on not receiving the anti-pneumococcal and rotavirus vaccination. Unemployment leads to an increase in health problems in the family. To sum up, the economic crisis has increased inequalities according to socioeconomic status.
The incidence and prevalence of pediatric type 1 diabetes are increasing globally, including in the U.S. While the increasing number of cases of pediatric diabetes makes expeditious availability of new medical products and therapies for diabetes care essential, there have been many barriers encountered in bringing some drugs and devices to pediatric patients who may benefit. Newer insulins have been studied and approved for use in children. However, hurdles exist in the inclusion of children in studies of therapies aimed at preventing 棺-cell loss in those with new-onset diabetes and those at risk for type 1 diabetes. This Perspective focuses on potential solutions to the challenges experienced in bringing new drugs for pediatric type 1 diabetes to marketing approval. Given their central importance as the users of medical products, patient perspectives are included along with scientific and regulatory considerations.
U-BIOPRED aims to characterise paediatric and adult severe asthma using conventional and innovative systems biology approaches. A total of 99 school-age children with severe asthma and 81 preschoolers with severe wheeze were compared with 49 school-age children with mild/moderate asthma and 53 preschoolers with mild/moderate wheeze in a cross-sectional study. Despite high-dose treatment, the severe cohorts had more severe exacerbations compared with the mild/moderate ones (annual medians: school-aged 3.0 versus 1.1, preschool 3.9 versus 1.8; p<0.001). Exhaled tobacco exposure was common in the severe wheeze cohort. Almost all participants in each cohort were atopic and had a normal body mass index. Asthma-related quality of life, as assessed by the Paediatric Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (PAQLQ) and the Paediatric Asthma Caregiver's Quality of Life Questionnaire (PACQLQ), was worse in the severe cohorts (mean짹se school-age PAQLQ: 4.77짹0.15 versus 5.80짹0.19; preschool PACQLQ: 4.27짹0.18 versus 6.04짹0.18; both p0.001); however, mild/moderate cohorts also had significant morbidity. Impaired quality of life was associated with poor control and airway obstruction. Otherwise, the severe and mild/moderate cohorts were clinically very similar. Children with severe preschool wheeze or severe asthma are usually atopic and have impaired quality of life that is associated with poor control and airflow limitation: a very different phenotype from adult severe asthma. In-depth phenotyping of these children, integrating clinical data with high-dimensional biomarkers, may help to improve and tailor their clinical management.
A working group representing the American Society of Transplantation, Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society, and International Pediatric Transplant Association has developed a collaborative effort to identify and develop core knowledge in pediatric transplant infectious diseases. Guidance for patient care environments for training and core competencies is included to help facilitate training directed at improving the experience for pediatric infectious diseases trainees and practitioners in the area of pediatric transplant infectious diseases.
BACKGROUND The resurgence of pertussis is contributing to mounting healthcare worker (HCW) exposures, especially within pediatric outpatient settings. Infection prevention and control (IPC) guidelines for ambulatory sites exist, but are not uniformly implemented. Our aim was to identify facilitators and barriers to the use of IPC practices to prevent pertussis transmission in ambulatory pediatric settings.   METHODS HCWs at 18 of 25 (72%) clinics in a pediatric ambulatory network completed a theory-based questionnaire about pertussis and personal protective equipment (PPE). The questionnaire contained randomly distributed versions of two vignettes to create an experimental design assessing barriers to PPE use.   RESULTS Three hundred forty-three of 467 (73%) HCWs completed the survey: 234 (68%) clinical and 109 (32%) nonclinical. Seventy-one percent of clinical HCWs reported wearing PPE when caring for a patient with suspected pertussis; only 27% used PPE for patients with any respiratory symptoms. Among clinical HCWs, reported PPE use when caring for patients with suspected pertussis was independently associated with attitudes toward PPE (odds ratio [OR] 5.4, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.8, 16.6), knowledge and skills (OR 4.6, 95% CI 1.4, 15.2), and lack of perceived barriers (OR 3.2, 95% CI 1.3, 7.9). HCWs who did not perceive PPE use as a norm were less likely to report using PPE (OR 0.2, 95% CI 0.1, 0.6) or distributing masks to patients with cough (OR 0.02, 95% CI 0.00, 0.2). Reported PPE use was not influenced by perceived infection risk or mask accessibility.   CONCLUSION Our results identified barriers to PPE use and targets for education to prevent pertussis transmission in ambulatory pediatric settings.
The use of fluoroquinolones differs dramatically between adult and pediatric patients. For adults, they are the leading class of antibiotics prescribed in ambulatory care visits whereas in children, they are the least frequently prescribed class. The reasons for this difference in practice likely relate to perceptions of their potential for harm. This highlights the impact of physicians' perception of direct patient harm in antibiotic decision making which has implications for antibiotic stewardship.
Multiple electronic and administrative databases are available for the study of pediatric infectious diseases. In this review, we identify research questions well suited to investigations using these databases and highlight their advantages, including their relatively low cost, efficiency, and ability to detect rare outcomes. We discuss important limitations, including those inherent in observational study designs and the potential for misclassification of exposures and outcomes, and identify strategies for addressing these limitations. We provide examples of commonly used databases and discuss methodologic considerations in undertaking studies using large databases. Last, we propose a checklist for use in planning or evaluating studies of pediatric infectious diseases that employ electronic databases, and we outline additional practical considerations regarding the cost of and how to access commonly used databases.
A structured Web-based search was performed to identify online educational programs on the optimal use of antibiotics in children. Identified Web sites of interest were classified using predefined quality criteria for educational Web resources. Of 10 Web sites identified, only 2 met all the quality criteria: APUA and Getsmart.
We present a review of the Junior MARSIPAN (Management of Really Sick Patients with Anorexia Nervosa) guideline, which provides paediatricians with a framework for managing Anorexia Nervosa in the inpatient setting.
In the past 3 years, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act accelerated the adoption of electronic health records (EHRs) with providers and hospitals, who can claim incentive monies related to meaningful use. Despite the increase in adoption of commercial EHRs in pediatric settings, there has been little support for EHR tools and functionalities that promote pediatric quality improvement and patient safety, and children remain at higher risk than adults for medical errors in inpatient environments. Health information technology (HIT) tailored to the needs of pediatric health care providers can improve care by reducing the likelihood of errors through information assurance and minimizing the harm that results from errors. This technical report outlines pediatric-specific concepts, child health needs and their data elements, and required functionalities in inpatient clinical information systems that may be missing in adult-oriented HIT systems with negative consequences for pediatric inpatient care. It is imperative that inpatient (and outpatient) HIT systems be adapted to improve their ability to properly support safe health care delivery for children.
OBJECTIVES The North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition has formulated guidelines for managing functional constipation. There have been no studies that have investigated how pediatricians apply the constipation guideline since it was revised in 2006. The purpose of this study was to examine how pediatricians approach functional constipation and how closely their approaches adhere to the guidelines.   METHODS An anonymous multiple-choice questionnaire was developed by general pediatricians and pediatric gastroenterologists. This was distributed to pediatricians and pediatric residents at 7 academic institutions, and to the American Academy of Pediatrics section on medical students, residents, and fellowship trainees mailing list.   RESULTS A total of 1202 responses were received (952 trainees, 250 attendings). Of these, 84.3% reported being unfamiliar/slightly familiar with the guidelines. The most common initial interventions for constipation without fecal incontinence included fluids (92.1%), fiber (89.5%), juice (77.7%), behavioral interventions (71.2%), follow-up (53.4%), and reducing constipating foods (50.1%). The most common initial interventions for constipation with fecal incontinence included bowel cleanout (73.4%), maintenance medication (70.0%), fluids (67.9%), behavioral interventions (67.6%), fiber (66.1%), and follow-up (57.8%). Osmotics were the most commonly prescribed as needed (83.0%) and maintenance medications (96.8%), with stimulants prescribed PRN by 35.6% and as maintenance by 16.8%. Some individuals (39.7%) reported concern that osmotics could result in dependence, addiction, or electrolyte imbalances, compared with 73.0% for stimulants.   CONCLUSIONS Our results show that more education regarding medication in functional constipation is necessary, including the use of medication reducing time to remission, the necessity of disimpaction, and misconceptions regarding adverse effects.
OBJECTIVES To investigate the views of parents, clinicians, and children pertaining to prescribing decisions for acute childhood infection in primary care.   METHODS A systematic review of qualitative studies. Meta-ethnographic methods were used, with data drawn from the primary studies in an interpretive analysis.   RESULTS A total of 15 studies met the inclusion criteria. The literature was dominated by concerns about antibiotic over-prescription. Children's views were not reported. Clinicians prescribed antibiotics when they felt pressured by parents or others (e.g. employers) to do so, when they believed there was a clear clinical indication, but also when they felt uncertain of clinical or social outcomes they prescribed 'just in case'. Parents wanted antibiotics when they felt they would improve the current illness, and when they felt pressure from daycare providers or employers. Clinicians avoided antibiotics when they were concerned about adverse reactions or drug resistance, when certain they were not indicated, and when there was no perceived pressure from parents. Parents also wished to avoid adverse effects of antibiotics, and did not want antibiotics when they would not relieve current symptoms. Some parents preferred to avoid medication altogether. Within paediatric consultations, parents sought a medical evaluation and decision. Primary care clinicians want satisfied parents and short consultations.   CONCLUSIONS Antibiotic prescriptions for childhood infections in primary care often result from 'just in case' prescribing. These findings suggest that interventions which reduce clinician uncertainty regarding social or clinical outcomes and provide strategies to meet parents' needs within a short consultation are most likely to reduce antibiotic prescribing.
The aim was to investigate the clinical efficacy and safety of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) in pediatric urolithiasis. A comprehensive systematic review and meta-analysis were performed. PubMed, Embase, and the Cochrane central register of controlled trials (CENTRAL) were searched, and the stone-free rates (SFRs) of various stone sizes and stone positions were extracted from the eligible articles. The quality of the original articles was assessed according to the McHarm Scale. The risk ratios (RRs) and 95% confidential intervals (CIs) were pooled, and the sensitive analysis was performed to evaluate the heterogeneity among all eligible studies. In total, 14 studies with 1842 patients were identified. The pooled RR for the SFR of stones less than 10 mm and greater than 10 mm was 1.14 (95% CI: 1.07, 1.21, P < 0.001); the RR for the SFR of stones in the renal pole calix (PC) and the renal pelvis was 0.95 (95% CI: 0.893, 1.009, P < 0.01); the RR for the SFR of stones in the upper/middle PC and the lower PC was 1.07 (95% CI: 0.997, 1.156, P < 0.061); and the RR for the SFR of stones in the proximal ureter and middle/distal ureter was 1.077 (95% CI: 1.005, 1.154, P = 0.036). Heterogeneity was low in all the analyses. Major complications in ESWL of pediatric urolithiasis were steinstrasse and abdominal colic, the incidences of which were 6.00 and 6.29 %, respectively. The SFR of stones <10 mm was significantly higher than stones >10 mm, and the SFR of stones located in proximal ureter was statistically greater than stones in middle or distal ureter in pediatric urolithiasis, leaving no significant between stones in renal PC and renal pelvis, or between upper/middle PC and lower PC. The use of ESWL in children is highly efficient, with negligible complications; ESWL therapy could be considered the first-line treatment for pediatric urolithiasis.
Life course theory sets the framework for strong inclusion of family centered care (FCC) in quality medical homes of children with neurodevelopmental disabilities (CNDD). The purpose of this study was to explore the perceptions of families with their experiences of FCC in medical homes for CNDD. Using a structured questionnaire, the Family-Centered Care Self-Assessment Tool developed by Family Voices, this study surveyed 122 parents of CNDD in a large urban area during 2010-2012. Data collected information on FCC in the provision of primary health care services for CNDD and focused on family-provider partnerships, care setting practices and policies, and community services. Frequency analysis classified participants' responses as strengths in the 'most of the time' range, and weaknesses in the 'never' range. Only 31 % of parents were satisfied with the primary health care their CNDD received. Based on an accepted definition of medical home services, 16 % of parents reported their CNDD had most aspects of a medical home, 64 % had some, and 20 % had none. Strengths in FCC were primarily evident in the family-provider partnership and care settings when focused on meeting the medical care needs of the child. Weaknesses in FCC were noted in meeting the needs of families, coordination, follow-up, and support with community resources. Improvements in key pediatric health care strategies for CNDD are recommended. CNDD and their families have multifaceted needs that require strong partnerships among parents, providers, and communities. Quality medical homes must include FCC and valued partnerships with diverse families and community-based providers.
OBJECTIVE To assess current practices of New York State pediatricians as they transition youth with special health care needs to adult-oriented medical care.   METHODS A survey of New York State pediatricians included 6 critical steps from 2002 consensus statement, 11 essential steps adapted from recent literature, and questions targeting age of starting transition and availability of transition policy.   RESULTS Of 181 respondents, only 11% have a transition policy. Most assist patients in transition process; identify an adult provider (92%); and create portable medical summary (57%). Only 3% start planning process at recommended age. No respondents are compliant with all 6 critical steps; subspecialists were more likely to report compliance to more than 4 steps.   CONCLUSIONS Participating pediatricians are making gains, yet effort is needed, to incorporate the essential steps into practice for transitioning youth with special health care needs. Recognition of barriers, use of electronic tools, and clarifying subspecialist's approach, may improve compliance with transition recommendations.
OBJECTIVE The factor structure and validity of the Behavioral Pediatrics Feeding Assessment Scale (BPFAS; Crist & Napier-Phillips, 2001) were examined in preschoolers with autism spectrum disorder (ASD).   METHODS Confirmatory factor analysis was used to examine the original BPFAS five-factor model, the fit of each latent variable, and a rival one-factor model. None of the models was adequate, thus a categorical exploratory factor analysis (CEFA) was conducted. Correlations were used to examine relations between the BPFAS and concurrent variables of interest.   RESULTS The CEFA identified an acceptable three-factor model. Correlational analyses indicated that feeding problems were positively related to parent-reported autism symptoms, behavior problems, sleep problems, and parenting stress, but largely unrelated to performance-based indices of autism symptom severity, language, and cognitive abilities, as well as child age.   CONCLUSION These results provide evidence supporting the use of the identified BPFAS three-factor model for samples of young children with ASD.
The Foundation for Children with Kidney Diseases (FUNDANIER) has been the driving force that has facilitated changes in the Guatemalan health system in order to establish a comprehensive pediatric nephrology program. We previously described the creation and early phases of the FUNDANIER project. This article describes the recent accomplishments of the project with the intention of sharing a model that might be applicable in other developing countries.
BACKGROUND We hypothesized that the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 'threat and error' model (which is derived from analyzing >30,000 commercial flights, and explains >90% of crashes) is directly applicable to pediatric cardiac surgery.   METHODS We implemented a unit-wide performance initiative, whereby every surgical admission constitutes a 'flight' and is tracked in real time, with the aim of identifying errors. The first 500 consecutive patients (524 flights) were analyzed, with an emphasis on the relationship between error cycles and permanent harmful outcomes.   RESULTS Among 524 patient flights (risk adjustment for congenital heart surgery category: 1-6; median: 2) 68 (13%) involved residual hemodynamic lesions, 13 (2.5%) permanent end-organ injuries, and 7 deaths (1.3%). Preoperatively, 763 threats were identified in 379 (72%) flights. Only 51% of patient flights (267) were error free. In the remaining 257 flights, 430 errors occurred, most commonly related to proficiency (280; 65%) or judgment (69, 16%). In most flights with errors (173 of 257; 67%), an unintended clinical state resulted, ie, the error was consequential. In 60% of consequential errors (n = 110; 21% of total), subsequent cycles of additional error/unintended states occurred. Cycles, particularly those containing multiple errors, were very significantly associated with permanent harmful end-states, including residual hemodynamic lesions (P < .0001), end-organ injury (P < .0001), and death (P < .0001). Deaths were almost always preceded by cycles (6 of 7; P < .0001).   CONCLUSIONS Human error, if not mitigated, often leads to cycles of error and unintended patient states, which are dangerous and precede the majority of harmful outcomes. Efforts to manage threats and error cycles (through crew resource management techniques) are likely to yield large increases in patient safety.
OBJECTIVES To evaluate the attitudes of pediatric professionals towards the March 2013 statement of the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics that whenever genomic sequencing is ordered, the laboratory must look for 56 genes known to be highly penetrant in high-risk groups, and these results must be reported to the clinician regardless of patient age or consent.   STUDY DESIGN E-mail and postal survey sent to 332 members of the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) Section on Bioethics (SOB) (n=183), Section on Genetics and Birth Defects (n=148), and 1 member of both groups regarding the mandatory search and reporting of secondary findings from genomic sequencing performed on children.   RESULTS Of 332 potential participants, 12 asked to be excluded and 181 partially or completely responded (181/320, or 56.6%). Two were subsequently excluded (179). More than 80% believed that patients and parents (guardians) should have the right to refuse to be informed of secondary findings. Only 34.7% of AAP SOB members supported the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics proposed mandatory search policy in contrast with 70.8% of Section of Genetics and Birth Defects members (P<.01). Approximately 30% of both groups thought that parents should not have access to information about adult-onset conditions in their children. AAP SOB members were less likely to support testing a child for parental benefit (34.5% vs 79.7%, P<.01).   CONCLUSIONS There is broad consensus that parents should have the right to opt out of receiving secondary findings. There is no consensus about the ethics of justifying disclosure on the basis of parental benefit.
OBJECTIVE The purpose of this study was to analyze modalities of the transition from pediatric to adult epilepsy care and patients' acquisition of autonomy.   METHOD This study was conducted using semidirected interviews composed of three major parts: the patient's criteria of transition toward adult healthcare (factors taken into account, anticipation, the patient's opinion, etc.), conditions (teamwork with the neurologists, transmission of the medical record, continuity of health care, etc.), and the role played by social workers and psychologists. We interviewed 10혻doctors belonging to six major Parisian hospital units involved in the monitoring of children and adolescents with epilepsy and working in Pediatric Neurology Departments of the 횓le-de-France region.   RESULTS For most of the doctors, reaching 18 years of age was the major argument taken into account to consider transition to adult care. According to the doctors interviewed, parents are generally worried when their child has to find another doctor (7/10). According to eight out of 10혻doctors, the neurologist is selected to take over. The doctors recognize the importance of psychologists and social workers even if they are not always included. The process by which the patient gains autonomy depends a great deal on the role played by the pediatricians and parents, although some parents are very protective. This behavior weakens the patient's capacity for autonomy and it varies according to the degree of his or her physical and/or neurological disabilities. Furthermore, developing autonomy requires interdisciplinary work that is not yet fully in place.   CONCLUSION The lack of structures well-adapted to the uniqueness of each patient and the lack of coordination between the various institutions do not favor the acquisition of autonomy. A network that could efficiently respond to the needs of epileptic patients as well as medical care tailored to adolescents would be the answer to this dilemma.
We describe our 10-year experience developing the Ruth D. & Ken M. Davee Pediatric Neurocritical Care Program at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine. The neurocritical care team includes intensivists, neurologists, and an advanced practice nurse who have expertise in critical care neurology and who continue care in long-term follow-up of intensive care unit patients in a dedicated neurocritical care outpatient clinic. Brain-directed critical care requires collaboration between intensivists and neurologists with specific expertise in neurocritical care, using protocol-directed consistent care, and physiological measures to protect brain function. The heterogeneity of neurologic disorders in the pediatric intensive care unit requires a background in the relevant basic science and pathophysiology that is beyond the scope of standard neurology or critical care fellowships. To address this need, we also created a fellowship in neurocritical care for intensivists, neurologists, and advanced practice nurses. Last, we discuss the implications for pediatric neurocritical care from the experience of management of pediatric stroke and the development of stroke centers.
Pediatric traumatic brain injury accounts for approximately 474,000 emergency department visits, 37,000 hospitalizations, and 3,000 deaths in children 14 years and younger annually in the United States. Acute neurocritical care in children has advanced with specialized pediatric trauma centers and emergency medical services. This article reviews pediatric-specific diagnosis, management, and medical decision making related to the neurocritical care of severe traumatic brain injury.
Pediatric neurocritical care (NCC) has emerged as a defined subspecialty in child neurology and requires a collaborative effort among child neurologists, pediatric critical care medicine specialists, and pediatric neurosurgeons. Pediatric NCC has evolved differently in children than in adults, and its delivery depends on the local resources available for pediatric care. This article reviews the current practice of pediatric NCC by child neurologists: where it is practiced, how it is practiced, the disorders encountered (that differ from adult NCC), the training required to care for these disorders, and what is needed for the future of pediatric NCC.
BACKGROUND Traditionally, in ethical guidelines and in research ethics literature, care and research are clearly separated based on their different objectives. In contrast, in paediatric oncology, research and care are closely combined. Currently, it is unknown how relevant actors in paediatric oncology perceive this combination of research and care. We conducted a qualitative study into the experiences of those involved in Dutch paediatric oncology with the intertwinement of research and care and the dual role of paediatric oncologists as researchers and treating physicians.   PROCEDURE A qualitative study approach, using two focus groups and 19 semi-structured, in-depth interviews with paediatric oncologists, research coordinators, parents of children with cancer, and adolescents with cancer.   RESULTS Four themes characterize how actors experience the intertwinement of research and care in paediatric oncology. First, research is considered of major importance, and paediatric oncology professionals convey this message to patients and their parents. Second, there is ambiguity about categorization of studies into cancer therapy as either research or treatment. Third, role conflicts appear within the work of the paediatric oncologists. Finally, the various benefits of combining treatment with research are emphasized.   CONCLUSIONS Research is regarded as a fundamental and indispensable characteristic of paediatric oncology practice. Paediatric oncology professionals, parents, and patients have a very positive outlook on combining research and care, but they may not be sufficiently critical with respect to potential conflicts. Increased reflection on how to optimally combine research and care could serve as an important protection of the interests of children with cancer and their parents.
OBJECTIVE This article reviews the concepts of CT radiation dose optimization and process control, discusses how to achieve optimization and how to verify that it is consistently accomplished, and proposes strategies to move toward large-scale application.   CONCLUSION CT dose optimization is achieved when the least amount of radiation necessary is used to achieve adequate image quality. The key to consistent optimization is minimization of unnecessary variation. This minimization is accomplished through local process control mechanisms.
Childhood cancers are life-threatening diseases that are universally distressing and potentially traumatic for children and their families at diagnosis, during treatment, and beyond. Dramatic improvements in survival have occurred as a result of increasingly aggressive multimodal therapies delivered in the context of clinical research trials. Nonetheless, cancers remain a leading cause of death in children, and their treatments have short- and long-term impacts on health and well-being. For over 35 years, pediatric psychologists have partnered with pediatric oncology teams to make many contributions to our understanding of the impact of cancer and its treatment on children and families and have played prominent roles in providing an understanding of treatment-related late effects and in improving quality of life. After discussing the incidence of cancer in children, its causes, and the treatment approaches to it in pediatric oncology, we present seven key contributions of psychologists to collaborative and integrated care in pediatric cancer: managing procedural pain, nausea, and other symptoms; understanding and reducing neuropsychological effects; treating children in the context of their families and other systems (social ecology); applying a developmental perspective; identifying competence and vulnerability; integrating psychological knowledge into decision making and other clinical care issues; and facilitating the transition to palliative care and bereavement. We conclude with a discussion of the current status of integrating knowledge from psychological research into practice in pediatric cancer.
The frequency of drug shortages has increased considerably over the last decade. Important ethical issues arise whenever the supply of an effective drug is insufficient to meet demand. Using the ethical principles of beneficence, non-maleficence, and justice, institutions can guide prioritization of drug distribution before a shortage occurs to avoid unfair and unethical distribution of resources. This analysis will give a historical context for drug shortages, identify, and explore the central ethical concerns raised by drug shortages, and propose an ethical framework for addressing them in the context of pediatric oncology.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE Handoffs ensure patient safety during patient care transitions in the hospital setting. At our institution, verbal handoffs communicated by resident physicians are suggested practice for patients transferring from the PICU to the hospital medicine (HM) service. Despite their importance, these verbal handoffs occurred only 76% of the time before patient arrival on HM units. Our goal was to increase the completion rate of verbal handoffs to 100% within 5 months.   METHODS Baseline data were collected in a daily survey of HM residents. Interventions were developed and tested on small, incremental change cycles. Key interventions included education about the importance of handoffs, standardization of the handoff process, standardization of handoff documentation, and identification and mitigation of handoff documentation failures. We tracked handoff completion rates by using statistical control charts. After success with improving the completion rate of patient handoffs to the HM service, we applied our process to handoffs from the PICU to all inpatient services.   RESULTS Median completion of verbal patient handoff increased from 76% to 100% within 6 weeks, with improvement sustained for 15 months. Physician compliance with electronic medical record documentation increased from 58% to 94% within 8 months. After spreading to all patients transferring out of the PICU, documentation of patient handoffs increased from 76% to 94% in 5 months.   CONCLUSIONS A system using improvement science methods was successful in increasing the reliability of resident verbal patient handoffs. Consistent documentation and internal redundancy with checklists were associated with sustained improvement.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE Children often need procedural sedation for painful procedures. There are few data on type of provider, site of sedation, and agents used for procedural sedation in hospitals across the nation. The objective was to determine procedural sedation practices for hospitalized children outside the PICU and emergency department.   METHODS Surveys were sent to 89 pediatric hospitalist (PH) leaders in hospitals belonging to the Child Health Corporation of America or the National Association of Children's Hospitals and Related Institutions.   RESULTS We received responses from 56 PHs (63%), of whom 49 (55%) completed the survey. PHs provided sedation in 18 hospitals. Provider, setting, and agents used for procedural sedation varied. The primary providers of procedural sedation for abscess incision and drainage, renal biopsy, joint aspiration, computed tomography, and MRI were anesthesiologists. A significantly greater percentage of hospitals where PHs did not provide procedural sedation used the operating room for abscess incision and drainage compared with hospitals where PHs provided procedural sedation (63% vs 28%, respectively). Postoperative/abscess dressing change, vesicocystourethrogram, and 1 painful procedure were performed without sedation in significantly greater percentage of hospitals where PHs did not provide procedural sedation compared with hospitals where PHs provided procedural sedation.   CONCLUSIONS There is variability in sedation practices in hospitals across the nation, which affects patient care and use of resources such as the operating room. In hospitals where PHs provide procedural sedation, there is less operating room use and fewer painful procedures for which no sedation is provided.
OBJECTIVE Teaching and evaluation of handovers are important requirements of graduate medical education (GME), but well-defined and effective methods have not been clearly established. Case-based computer simulations provide potential methods to teach, evaluate, and practice handovers.   METHODS Case-based computer simulation modules were developed. In these modules, trainees care for a virtual patient in a time-lapsed session, followed by real-time synthesis and handover of the clinical information to a partner who uses this information to continue caring for the same patient in a simulated night scenario, with an observer tallying included handover components. The process culminates with evaluator feedback and structured handover education. Surveys were used before and after module implementation to allow the interns to rate the quality of handover provided and record rapid responses and transfers to the ICU.   RESULTS Fifty-two pediatric and medicine/pediatric residents from 2 institutions participated in the modules. 'Anticipatory guidance' elements of the handover were the most frequently excluded (missing at least 1 component in 77% of module handovers). There were no significant differences in the proportion of nights with rapid response calls (7.24% vs 12.79%, P=.052) or transfers to the ICU (7.76% vs 11.27%, P=.21) before and after module implementation.   CONCLUSIONS Case-based, computer-simulation modules are an easily implemented and generalizable mechanism for handover education and assessment. Although significant improvements in patient safety outcomes were not seen as a result of the educational module alone, novel techniques of this nature may supplement handover bundles that have been demonstrated to improve patient safety.
OBJECTIVES To assess among US physicians (1) frequency of requests to spread out recommended vaccination schedule for children <2 years, (2) attitudes regarding such requests, and (3) strategies used and perceived effectiveness in response to such requests.   METHODS An e-mail and mail survey of a nationally representative sample of pediatricians and family physicians from June 2012 through October 2012.   RESULTS The response rate was 66% (534 of 815). In a typical month, 93% reported some parents of children <2 years requested to spread out vaccines; 21% reported  10% of parents made this request. Most respondents thought these parents were putting their children at risk for disease (87%) and that it was more painful for children (84%), but if they agreed to requests, it would build trust with families (82%); further, they believed that if they did not agree, families might leave their practice (80%). Forty percent reported this issue had decreased their job satisfaction. Most agreed to spread out vaccines when requested, either often/always (37%) or sometimes (37%); 2% would often/always, 4% would sometimes, and 12% would rarely dismiss families from their practice if they wanted to spread out the primary series. Physicians reported using a variety of strategies in response to requests but did not think they were effective.   CONCLUSIONS Virtually all providers encounter requests to spread out vaccines in a typical month and, despite concerns, most are agreeing to do so. Providers are using many strategies in response but think few are effective. Evidence-based interventions to increase timely immunization are needed to guide primary care and public health practice.
On the basis of some research evidence and consensus, identification of acute opsoclonus, ataxia, or myoclonus should prompt consideration of an underlying neuroblastoma. On the basis of some research evidence and consensus, surgical treatment options should be considered for children with dystonia, including secondary dystonias, such as those related to cerebral palsy, and include intrathecal baclofen pumps and deep brain stimulation. On the basis of some research evidence and clinical experience, tetrabenazine may be effective in treating chorea. On the basis of strong research evidence, although seldom inherently dangerous, tics may be uncomfortable for affected children and interfere with academic achievement and social development. On the basis of some research evidence and clinical experience, topiramate may be an effective treatment for tic disorders.
On the basis of observational studies, the most common cause of nephrotic syndrome in school-aged children is minimal change disease. On the basis of research evidence and consensus, corticosteroids are considered first-line therapy for treatment of nephrotic syndrome. On the basis of consensus, prednisone therapy should be initiated at doses of 60 mg/m2 per day (2 mg/kg per day) administered for 4 to 6 weeks, followed by 40 mg/m2 per dose (1.5 mg/kg) every other day for at least 6 to 8 weeks. On the basis of consensus and expert opinion, it is important to recognize and manage the complications that can arise in patients with nephrotic syndrome, such as dyslipidemia, infection, and thrombosis. On the basis of research evidence, consensus, and expert opinion, several alternative therapies have been observed to have variable efficacy in children with both corticosteroid-dependent and corticosteroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome, although caution must be exercised in the administration of these corticosteroid-sparing medications secondary to toxic adverse effects. On the basis of observational studies, the course of nephrotic syndrome in most patients is that of relapse and remission.
BACKGROUND The audit of drug prescribing pattern in under-five children is essential in identifying the various types of non-rational prescribing such as polypharmacy and irrational use of antimicrobials. The primary objective of this study was to determine the drug prescribing pattern for children aged below five years attending the paediatric outpatient clinic of a tertiary hospital in Ado-Ekiti, South-West Nigeria.   METHODS A cross-sectional study was carried out using the medical records of patients who attended the paediatric clinic of the hospital between April 1 and October 30, 2013. The medical records of patients aged below five years were selected monthly for the period of the study using a regular interval ratio. Drug use indicators were assessed using the WHO guidelines on investigation of drug use in health care facilities.   RESULTS There were 293(55.7%) prescriptions collected from male patients and 233(44.3% from female patients with a total of 1369 prescribed drugs (2.6 짹 1.1 drugs per prescription). A total of three hundred and seventy-four (71.1%) patients had at least one antibiotic prescribed with antibiotics accounting for 28.2% of all drugs prescribed, while 13.5% of all encounters had an injection prescribed. Prescribing by generic name was done in 68.9 짹 26.5% of all prescribed medications, and 60.4% of all prescribed medications were from the latest version of the Nigerian Essential Drug List. Three hundred and twelve children (59.3%) had at least one anti-malarial drug prescribed while analgesics drugs accounted for 6.1% of all prescriptions.   CONCLUSION This study showed that over-prescription of antibiotics, significant use of injections and prescribing by generic name are real issues among Nigerian paediatric prescribers.
OBJECTIVE Hyperkalemia is one of the reversible causes of cardiac arrest in children. The Advanced Cardiovascular Life Support guidelines have specific recommendations on the choice and sequence of medications for treatment of life-threatening hyperkalemia. However, the Pediatric Advanced Life Support guidelines have no specific treatment recommendations. The objective of this study was to measure the extent to which opinions diverge among pediatricians on the choice and sequence of medication administration in the management of hyperkalemia during cardiac arrest.   DESIGN Scenario-based survey.   SETTING A hypothetical hospital area covered by the pediatric rapid response team.   PATIENTS A hypothetical scenario of a 7-year old child receiving a blood transfusion who is suddenly unresponsive and found to be in pulseless ventricular tachycardia with stat labs revealing a potassium level of 8.3.   INTERVENTIONS A scenario-based survey of PICU fellows and attendings at a PICU Fellows Boot Camp.   MEASUREMENT AND MAIN RESULTS Eighty-four fellows and 24 attendings responded to the survey. The response rate was 89%. Calcium was chosen most frequently as the first drug to be administered (calcium chloride, 40/115 [34.8%]; calcium gluconate, 62/115 [53.9%]) while 38 of 115 respondents (33%) chose a drug other than calcium. Only 17 of 115 respondents (15%) would use calcium, sodium bicarbonate, insulin, and dextrose in the advanced cardiovascular life support-recommended sequence. PICU attendings were significantly more likely to administer the advanced cardiovascular life support-recommended sequence than fellows (attendings, 8/24 [33%] vs fellows, 9/84 [11%]; p = 0.007).   CONCLUSION This survey revealed notable variability in the choice and sequence of medications for treatment of life-threatening hyperkalemia with surprisingly few participants in compliance with the advanced cardiovascular life support hyperkalemia guidelines. A standardized approach for pediatric life-threatening hyperkalemia is recommended to improve resuscitation quality.
INTRODUCTION The hands of a health care worker are a common vehicle of pathogen transmission in hospital settings. Health care worker hand hygiene is therefore critical for patients' well being. Whilst failure of health care workers to comply with the best hand hygiene practice is a problem in all health care settings, issues of lack of access to adequate cleaning equipment and in some cases even running water make practicing good hand hygiene particularly difficult in low-resource developing country settings. This study reports an audit and feedback project that focused on the hand hygiene of the health care worker in the pediatric special care unit of the Mulago National Referral Hospital, which is a low-resource setting in Uganda.   OBJECTIVE To improve hand hygiene among health care workers in the pediatric special care unit and thereby contribute to reducing transmission of health care worker-associated pathogens.   METHODS The Joanna Briggs Institute three-phase Practical Application of Clinical Evidence System audit and feedback tool for promoting evidence utilization and change in health care was used. In phase one of the project, stakeholders were engaged and seven evidence-based audit criteria were developed. A baseline audit was then conducted. In phase two, barriers underpinning areas of noncompliance found in the baseline audit were identified and three strategies - education, reminders and provision of hand cleaning equipment - were implemented to overcome them. In phase three, a follow-up audit was conducted.   RESULTS Compliance with best practice hygiene was found to be poor in the baseline audit for all but one of the audit criteria. Following the implementation of the strategies, hand hygiene improved. The compliance rate increased substantially across all criteria. Staff education achieved 100%, whilst criterion 4 increased to 70%. However, use of alcohol-based hand-rub for hand hygiene only improved to 66%, and for six of the seven audit criteria, compliance remained below 74%.   CONCLUSION The project provides another example of how audit can be used as a tool to improve health practice, even in a low-resource setting. At the same time, it showed how difficult it is to achieve compliance with best hand hygiene practice in a low-resource hospital. The project highlights the importance of continued education/awareness raising on the importance of good hand hygiene practice as well as investment in infrastructure and cleaning supplies for achieving and sustaining good hand hygiene among workers in a low-resource hospital setting. A key contribution of the project was the legacy it left in the form of knowledge about how to use audit and feedback as a tool to promote the best practice. A similar project has been implemented in the maternity ward at the hospital and further audits are planned.
The primary objective of this study was to assess the impact of pediatric pain-related conditions on health care expenditures. We analyzed data from a nationally representative sample of 6- to 17-year-old children captured in the 2007 National Health Interview Survey and 2008 Medical Expenditure Panel Survey. Health care expenditures of children with pain-related conditions were compared with those of children without pain-related conditions. Pain-related conditions were associated with incremental health care expenditures of $1339 (95% confidence interval [CI], $248-$2447) per capita. Extrapolated to the nation, pediatric pain-related conditions were associated with $11.8 billion (95% CI, $2.18-$21.5 billion) in total incremental health care expenditures. The incremental health care expenditures associated with pediatric pain-related conditions were similar to those of attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder ($9.23 billion; 95% CI, $1.89-$18.1 billion), but more than those associated with asthma ($5.35 billion; 95% CI, $0-$12.3 billion) and obesity ($0.73 billion; 95% CI, $6.28-$8.81 billion). Health care expenditures for pediatric pain-related conditions exert a considerable economic burden on society. Efforts to prevent and treat pediatric pain-related conditions are urgently needed.
We describe the protocolised use of 23.4% hypertonic saline solution (HTS) for intracranial hypertension in the context of traumatic brain injury in the paediatric population. This study represents the largest published data on the use of 23.4% HTS in the paediatric population. In this retrospective cohort, we focus on the efficacy, biochemical and metabolic consequences of 23.4% HTS administration in a Level 1 paediatric trauma centre. Mortality in the first seven days was 6% (2/32) with a mean intensive care unit length-of-stay of ten days (range 2 to 25, standard deviation [SD] 6). All-cause hospital mortality was 6%, with no deaths after the seven-day study period. Mean intracranial pressure (ICP) response to HTS was 10 mmHg (range 1 to 30, SD 8). For biochemistry data, the mean highest daily serum sodium was 148 mmol/l (139 to 161, SD 6), mean highest serum chloride was 115 mmol/l (range 101 to 132, SD 8) with matched mean serum base excess of -1.5 mmol/l (range 2 to -8, SD 3) and mean peak serum creatinine was 73 mmol/l (range 32 to 104, SD 32). Glasgow outcome scores of >3 (independent function) were achieved in 74% of patients. We describe the use of 23.4% HTS, demonstrating it to be a practical and efficacious method of delivering osmoles and may be advantageous in minimising total fluid volume. Thus, the bolus versus infusion debate may best be served via combining both approaches.
Skin infections are a common cause for dermatological consultations in the paediatric setting. A review is presented of the clinical manifestations, diagnosis and treatment of the main bacterial skin infections, as well as the diagnosis and treatment of super-infected puncture and bite wounds. The most prevalent bacteria in skin infections are Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes. Treatment is usually empirical, since microbiological studies are only recommended under certain circumstances or lack of improvement with common therapies. Superficial skin infections can be treated with local antiseptics or antibiotics (mupirocin or fusidic acid). Systemic treatment is usually reserved for patients with extensive or severe disease or with other risk factors. Systemic treatment depends on the suspected infecting bacteria, with penicillin, amoxicillin, amoxicillin-clavulanic acid and first or second generation cephalosporin being the most frequently used drugs. Due to the low incidence of community-acquired methicillin-resistant infection by S. aureus in Spain, the use of clindamycin or co-trimoxazole is only recommended after severe disease, relapses or a clear epidemiological background.
Herbert Rackow and Ernest Salanitre were pediatric anesthesiologists at Babies Hospital at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in New York whose work spanned three decades beginning in the early 1950s. Their pioneering research included studies of the uptake and elimination of inhalational anesthetics and of the risk of cardiac arrest in infants and children. They were actively involved in the development of pediatric anesthesia as a specialty, and their efforts contributed to inter-disciplinary collaboration and to the formation of the Section on Anesthesiology of the American Academy of Pediatrics. Their 1969 review article, 'Modern Concepts in Pediatric Anesthesiology', provides a fascinating view of pediatric anesthesia 50혻years ago. In 1990, they were jointly awarded the Robert M. Smith award by the Section on Anesthesiology of the American Academy of Pediatrics.
BACKGROUND This study was conducted to compare the efficiency of jet nebulizers, vibrating mesh nebulizers, and pressurized metered-dose inhalers (pMDI) during assisted and unassisted administration techniques using a simulated spontaneously breathing pediatric model with a tracheostomy tube (TT).   METHODS An in vitro breathing model consisting of an uncuffed TT (4.5-mm inner diameter) was attached to a collecting filter (Respirgard) connected to a dual-chamber test lung and a ventilator (Hamilton Medical) to simulate breathing parameters of a 2-y-old child (breathing frequency, 25 breaths/min; tidal volume, 150 mL; inspiratory time, 0.8 s; peak inspiratory flow, 20 L/min). Albuterol sulfate was administered using a jet nebulizer (MicroMist, 2.5 mg/3 mL), vibrating mesh nebulizer (Aeroneb Solo, 2.5 mg/3 mL), and pMDI (ProAir HFA, 432 關g). Each device was tested 5 times with an unassisted technique (direct administration of aerosols with simulated spontaneous breathing) and with an assisted technique (using a manual resuscitation bag in conjunction with an aerosol device and synchronized with inspiration). Drug collected on the filter was analyzed by spectrophotometry.   RESULTS With the unassisted technique, the pMDI had the highest inhaled mass percent (IM%, 47.15 짹 7.82%), followed by the vibrating mesh nebulizer (19.77 짹 2.99%) and the jet nebulizer (5.88 짹 0.77%, P = .002). IM was greater with the vibrating mesh nebulizer (0.49 짹 .07 mg) than with the pMDI (0.20 짹 0.03 mg) and the jet nebulizer (0.15 짹 0.01 mg, P = .007). The trend of lower deposition with the assisted versus unassisted technique was not significant for the jet nebulizer (P = .46), vibrating mesh nebulizer (P = .19), and pMDI (P = .64).   CONCLUSIONS In this in vitro pediatric breathing model with a TT, the pMDI delivered the highest IM%, whereas the vibrating mesh nebulizer delivered the highest IM. The jet nebulizer was the least efficient device. Delivery efficiency was similar with unassisted and assisted administration techniques.
PURPOSE School settings are a common practice context for rehabilitation professionals; health advocacy is a common and challenging practice role for professionals in this context. This study explored how pediatric practitioners advocate for children with disabilities at school. Specifically, we examined everyday advocacy in the context of school-based support for children with disabilities.   METHOD Our theoretical framework and methodological approach were informed by institutional ethnography, which maps and makes visible hidden social coordinators of work processes with a view to improving processes and outcomes. We included families, educators, and health/rehabilitation practitioners from Ontario. Of the 37 consented informants, 27 were interviewed and 15 observed. Documents and texts were collected from the micro-level (e.g. clinician reports) and the macro-level (e.g. policies).   RESULTS Pediatric practitioners' advocacy work included two main work processes: spotlighting invisible disabilities and orienteering the special education terrain. Practitioners advocated indirectly, by proxy, with common proxies being documents and parents. Unintended consequences of advocacy by proxy included conflict and inefficiency, which were often unknown to the practitioner.   CONCLUSIONS The findings of this study provide practice-based knowledge about advocacy for children with disabilities, which may be used to inform further development of competency frameworks and continuing education for pediatric practitioners. The findings also show how everyday practices are influenced by policies and social discourses and how rehabilitation professionals may enact change. Implications for Rehabilitation Rehabilitation professionals frequently perform advocacy work. They may find it beneficial to perform advocacy work that is informed by overarching professional and ethical guidelines, and a nuanced understanding of local processes and structures. Competency frameworks and education for pediatric rehabilitation professionals may be improved by: encouraging professionals to consider how their practices, including their written documents, may affect parental burden, (mis)interpretation by document recipients, and potential unintended consequences. Policies and texts, e.g. privacy legislation and the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM), influence rehabilitation professionals' actions and interactions when supporting children with disabilities at school. An awareness of the influence of policies and texts may enable practitioners to work more effectively within current systems when supporting individuals with disabilities.
Oral drug delivery is a non-invasive and therefore a very convenient route of administration. Orally disintegrating dosage forms, like soluble films and (mini-)tablets, appear promising for use in the pediatric population. New guidance for the development of pediatric medicines has been published, which provides considerations on how pediatric products should be designed. However, most of the considerations leave a lot of room for interpretations. Bearing in mind the different aspects discussed in the latest guideline, the use of orally disintegrating films and tablets, in particular, small-sized tablets, is discussed and reflected upon by providing evidence from the scientific literature. The available dosage forms for children are various and examples of currently licensed products for use in the pediatric population were compiled. Aspects such as the appropriateness for pediatrics, the choice of excipients, the opportunities for modified drug release preparations or fixed-dose combinations, the acceptability and palatability, and also limitations were discussed with respect to the new dosage forms of orally disintegrating films and mini-tablets. This paper points out that innovation in pediatric medicines are planned and should be encouraged; however, supported by the regulatory guidance, only general considerations are provided. Nevertheless, the guideline summarizes multiple points to consider during the development of medicines for pediatric use. Considering the scientific evidence and the regulatory guidance, orally disintegrating dosage forms, like soluble films and (mini-)tablets, offer an innovative solution for pediatric drug delivery.
AIM To present a protocol for a multi-phase study about the current practice of end-of-life care in paediatric settings in Switzerland.   BACKGROUND In Switzerland, paediatric palliative care is usually provided by teams, who may not necessarily have specific training. There is a lack of systematic data about specific aspects of care at the end of a child's life, such as symptom management, involvement of parents in decision-making and family-centred care and experiences and needs of parents, and perspectives of healthcare professionals.   DESIGN This retrospective nationwide multicentre study, Paediatric End-of-LIfe CAre Needs in Switzerland (PELICAN), combines quantitative and qualitative methods of enquiry.   METHODS The PELICAN study consists of three observational parts, PELICAN I describes practices of end-of-life care (defined as the last 4 weeks of life) in the hospital and home care setting of children (0-18 years) who died in the years 2011-2012 due to a cardiac, neurological or oncological disease, or who died in the neonatal period. PELICAN II assesses the experiences and needs of parents during the end-of-life phase of their child. PELICAN III focuses on healthcare professionals and explores their perspectives concerning the provision of end-of-life care.   CONCLUSION This first study across Switzerland will provide comprehensive insight into the current end-of-life care in children with distinct diagnoses and the perspectives of affected parents and health professionals. The results may facilitate the development and implementation of programmes for end-of-life care in children across Switzerland, building on real experiences and needs.   TRIAL REGISTRATION ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01983852.
BACKGROUND Providing influenza vaccine to patients in the pediatric emergency department (PED) is one strategy to increase childhood influenza vaccine uptake. The Parent Attitudes about Childhood Vaccines (PACV) survey is a new tool to identify vaccine-hesitant parents that may facilitate influenza vaccine uptake in the PED.   OBJECTIVE To assess the feasibility of administering the PACV modified for influenza vaccination in the PED setting and to determine whether parental PACV scores are associated with patient receipt of influenza vaccine in the PED.   METHODS We conducted a cross-sectional study in the PED of a tertiary pediatric hospital in Seattle, WA during the 2013-2014 influenza season. English-speaking parents of children aged 6 months to 7 years who were afebrile, medically stable to be discharged home from the PED, and had not already received an influenza vaccine this season were administered a modified version of the PACV. PACV scores (0-100, higher score=higher hesitancy) were dichotomized (<50 and 50) consistent with previous validation studies. Feasibility was assessed by determining time to complete the PACV. Our primary outcome was influenza vaccine refusal in the PED. We used multivariable logistic regression to estimate unadjusted and adjusted odds ratios for association between vaccine refusal and dichotomized PACV scores.   RESULTS 152 parent participants were included in the analysis. The median time for administering the PACV was 7 min. The median PACV score was 28, with 74% scoring <50. Parents who scored 50 on the PACV had increased odds of refusing the influenza vaccine compared to parents who scored <50 (adjusted OR [95% CI]: 6.58 [2.03-21.38]).   CONCLUSION Administration of the PACV in the PED is feasible, and higher PACV scores in this setting are associated with increased influenza vaccine refusal.
INTRODUCTION Patient reported outcome measures (PROMs) can identify important information about patient needs and therapeutic progress. The aim of this review was to identify the PROMs that are being used in child and adolescent burn care and to determine the quality of such scales.   METHODS Computerised and manual bibliographic searches of Medline, Social Sciences Index, Cinahl, Psychinfo, Psycharticles, AMED, and HAPI, were used to identify English-language articles using English-language PROMs from January 2001 to March 2013. The psychometric quality of the PROMs was assessed.   RESULTS 23 studies met the entry criteria and identified 32 different PROMs (31 generic, 1 burns-specific). Overall, the psychometric quality of the PROMs was low; only two generic scales (the Perceived Stigmatisation Questionnaire and the Social Comfort Scale) and only one burns-specific scale (the Children Burn Outcomes Questionnaire for children aged 5-18) had psychometric evidence relevant to this population.   CONCLUSIONS The majority of PROMs did not have psychometric evidence for their use with child or adolescent burn patients. To appropriately identify the needs and treatment progress of child and adolescent burn patients, new burns-specific PROMs need to be developed and validated to reflect issues that are of importance to this population.
INTRODUCTION Hearing loss has severe emotional, psychological, and social consequences. The early identification of hearing impairment is crucial.   OBJECTIVE To evaluate and quantify the knowledge of neonatologists, pediatricians, and residents in pediatrics regarding detection, risk factors, early diagnosis, and referral for rehabilitation of patients with neonatal hearing loss in Jundia챠, state of S찾o Paulo, Brazil.   METHODS This was a cross-sectional contemporary cohort study including 47 physicians from three hospitals and a questionnaire with 15 items.   RESULTS Most of the respondents (83%) had received information about hearing loss in their medical courses, but had no knowledge of techniques for hearing evaluation, and degrees and types of loss. All physicians agreed that in the first six months of life, it is possible to evaluate hearing function and that it is the physician's responsibility to assess the newborn. Regarding the age that the child can receive auditory rehabilitation, the end of the first year and the second year of life predominates.   CONCLUSION Most respondents know the risk factors for the detection of neonatal hearing impairment, know how to perform procedures, and recognize the importance of diagnosis of hearing loss and the need to refer suspected cases, but most do not know the techniques used to assess hearing in newborns.
Hypertension has become a serious global public health burden because of its high incidence and concomitant risk of cardiovascular disease. Many studies have verified that risk factors, such as hypertension and obesity which are responsible for cardiovascular disease, start in early childhood. In Asian countries, the prevalence of hypertension in the pediatric age group has become more prevalent than ever before with the increasing obesity epidemic. To tackle the epidemic of cardiovascular disease, a leading cause of death and disability of non-communicable diseases in Asian countries, population-based measures aiming at reducing harmful environmental factors to blood pressure and body weight must be applied to individuals in their early childhood, as early as the fetal stage. This review focused on the prevalence of pediatric hypertension in Asian countries and outlined several considerations for accurate blood pressure (BP) measurement and evaluation, along with an overview of pathophysiology of fetal programming and obesity related with childhood hypertension.
Defining what is appropriate or inappropriate with respect to CT scanning is challenging. There are a variety of influences on scan utilization in children, some more widely recognized and acknowledged than others. It is important to understand the contribution of these elements as we move toward improved utilization. This must be through partnerships and shared efforts and accountability. These efforts include improved resources such as consensus appropriateness criteria and guidelines including decision rules and support. But there also need to be trench-based strategies on the part of practicing radiologists to model cooperative behavior rather than blame-centered behavior.