BACKGROUND Changes in UK legislation allow for surgical procedures to be performed on cadavers. The aim of this study was to assess Thiel cadavers as high-fidelity simulators and to examine their suitability for surgical training.   METHODS Surgeons from various specialties were invited to attend a 1혻day dissection workshop using Thiel cadavers. The surgeons completed a baseline questionnaire on cadaveric simulation. At the end of the workshop, they completed a similar questionnaire based on their experience with Thiel cadavers. Comparing the answers in the pre- and post-workshop questionnaires assessed whether using Thiel cadavers had changed the surgeons' opinions of cadaveric simulation.   RESULTS According to the 27 participants, simulation is important for surgical training and a full-procedure model is beneficial for all levels of training. Currently, there is dissatisfaction with existing models and a need for high-fidelity alternatives. After the workshop, surgeons concluded that Thiel cadavers are suitable for surgical simulation (p혻=혻0.015). Thiel were found to be realistic (p혻<혻0.001) to have reduced odour (p혻=혻0.002) and be more cost-effective (p혻=혻0.003). Ethical constraints were considered to be small.   CONCLUSION Thiel cadavers are suitable for training in most surgical specialties.
The basis of the highly effective method for diagnostics of many dangerous diseases with the use of breathing tests and stable 13C isotope-labeled preparations has been developed in Russia during the past years. The technology for manufacturing 13C-preparations using domestically produced starting materials satisfies the requirements for isotopes in this and many foreign countries. New instruments for respiratory tests and diagnostic methods make it possible to carry out diagnostics in large populations including that in the course of regular medical examination. This paper reports high efficacy of 13C-based breath tests for diagnostics of gastrointestinal disorders, possibilities and prospects for their further application in oncology, endocrinology, pulmonology, neurology, cardiology, surgery, etc. Special attention is given to the use of 13C-magnetic resonance techniques for visualization of tumours and blood vessels, studies of metabolic processes and energy balance in man and animals with the use of 13C-biomarkers. The main advantages of these new diagnostic approaches are high accuracy, safety (for both patients and personnel), simplicity, and possibility of application in different fields of medicine.
BACKGROUND Hispanics account for over 60% of the U.S. population growth and 25% speak little-to-no English. This language barrier adversely affects both access to and quality of care. Surgical specialties trail other medical fields in assessing the effects of language barriers to surgical clinical care and patient satisfaction. This study was designed to assess the effects of patient-provider language concordance on a pediatric surgery practice.   METHODS A surgery-specific, 7-point Likert scale questionnaire was designed with 14 questions modeled after validated patient satisfaction surveys from the literature. Questions concerning provider-patient language concordance, quality of understanding, and general satisfaction were included. Surveys were administered to families of patients in the General Pediatric Surgery Clinic at our institution. Families were categorized into three groups: English-speaking, regardless of race/ethnicity; Spanish-speaking using interpreter services with an English-speaking medical team; and Spanish-speaking communicating directly with a Spanish-speaking medical team (Hispanic Center for Pediatric Surgery, HCPS). One-way analysis of variance was used to test for group differences.   RESULTS We administered 226 surveys; 49 were removed due to lack literacy proficiency. Families in the HCPS group reported a higher level of satisfaction than the interpreter and English groups (p<0.01). The HCPS group also indicated improved understanding of the information from the visit (p<0.001). Spanish-speaking only families felt that communicating directly with their health care team in their primary language was more important than their English-speaking counterparts (p<0.001).   CONCLUSIONS In a pediatric surgery clinic, language concordant care improves patient satisfaction and understanding for Hispanic families in comparison to language discordant care. Other clinics in other surgery sub-specialties may consider using this model to eliminate language barriers and improve patient satisfaction and understanding of surgical care.
INTRODUCTION Transition periods in medical education are associated with increased risk for learners and patients. For pediatric surgery residents, the transition to training is especially difficult as learners must adjust to new patient populations. In this study we perform a targeted needs assessment to determine the ideal content and format of a pediatric surgery boot camp to facilitate the transition to residency.   METHODS A needs assessment survey was developed and distributed to pediatric surgery residents and staff across North America. The survey asked participants to rank 30 pediatric surgical diagnoses, 20 skills, and 11 physiological topics on 'frequency' and 'importance'. Items were then ranked using empirical methods. The survey also evaluated the preferred boot camp format.   RESULTS In total, 12 residents and 23 staff completed the survey. No significant differences were identified between staff and residents in survey responses. The top 5 topics identified for inclusion in a boot camp were: (1) fluid and electrolyte management, (2) appendicitis, (3) pediatric hernias, (4) nutrition and (5) pain management. The preferred format for a boot camp was 3-4days in duration applying a blend of educational methods.   CONCLUSIONS Based on the results of the needs assessment survey, a novel pediatric surgery boot camp curriculum can be developed.
There have been many changes in the 'making of a surgeon'. Some of the key aspects that have altered residency/fellow training include work hour restrictions; a decrease in autonomy; and the explosion in knowledge, the change in technology, and the movement of complex cases away from General Surgery. There are a number of opportunities for enhancing current surgical training which include the following: 1) returning to reasonable work hour limits; 2) improving the efficiency of resident/fellow training by promoting early development of operative skills and starting down the path toward competency-based education; 3) increasing autonomy in the General and Pediatric Surgery residencies by developing and implementing structured processes for graded autonomy, further promoting the teaching assistant role, and even incorporating time as an attending into the period of training; and 4) developing a paradigm of uniform core surgery training followed by additional qualifications and training in both General Surgery and the surgical specialties.
This manuscript reports the results of a nationwide survey of transplant surgeons in Germany, including the demographics, training, position, individual case loads, center volumes, program structure, professional practice, grade of specialization, workload, work hours, salary, and career expectations. We contacted all 32 German transplant centers that perform liver, kidney, and pancreas transplantation. Surgeons engaged in transplantation were asked to reply to the survey. Eighty-five surgeons responded, with a mean age of 44 짹 8 years, 13% of whom were female. The median transplant frequency per active transplant surgeon was relatively low, with 16 liver transplants, 15 kidney transplants, and three pancreas transplants. The median reported center volumes were 45 liver transplants, 90 kidney transplants, and five pancreas transplants per year. Most of the surgeons reported a primary focus on hepato-pancreato-biliary surgery, and only 10% of effective work time was actually dedicated to perform transplant surgeries. The majority of respondents estimated their weekly work hours to be between 55 and 66 h. When asked about their career satisfaction and expectations, most respondents characterized their salaries as inappropriately low and their career prospects as inadequate. This survey provides a first impression of the transplant surgery work force in Germany.
Wrong-site surgery (WSS) is a rare event that occurs to hundreds of patients each year. Despite national implementation of the Universal Protocol over the past decade, development of effective interventions remains a challenge. We performed a systematic review of the literature reporting root causes of WSS and used the results to perform a fault tree analysis to assess the reliability of the system in preventing WSS and identifying high-priority targets for interventions aimed at reducing WSS. Process components where a single error could result in WSS were labeled with OR gates; process aspects reinforced by verification were labeled with AND gates. The overall redundancy of the system was evaluated based on prevalence of AND gates and OR gates. In total, 37 studies described risk factors for WSS. The fault tree contains 35 faults, most of which fall into five main categories. Despite the Universal Protocol mandating patient verification, surgical site signing, and a brief time-out, a large proportion of the process relies on human transcription and verification. Fault tree analysis provides a standardized perspective of errors or faults within the system of surgical scheduling and site confirmation. It can be adapted by institutions or specialties to lead to more targeted interventions to increase redundancy and reliability within the preoperative process.
In this article we explore the value of using visual data in a study on medical expert judgment to better understand medical experts' conceptualizations of complex, challenging situations. We use examples from a larger study on medical expertise in which rich pictures and interviews were used. The three stories presented in this article belong to experts in the domain of surgery. The stories are used to show the ways in which rich pictures can capture and elucidate potentially hidden aspects of the influence of the context in surgical experts' judgment during challenging operations. We suggest that incorporating visual representations such as rich pictures as research data can aid in understanding previously unarticulated constructions of medical expertise. We conclude that when the researcher strives for capturing complexity, visual methods have the potential to help medical experts deflect from their tendency to simplify descriptions of accounts and to meaningfully engage these individuals in the research process.
AIM We aimed to understand how changes in surgical techniques are transferred into surgical practice. We hypothesized that the integration of minimally invasive surgery (MIS) techniques into a pediatric surgical practice is dependent on the hiring of junior partners who can transfer their MIS knowledge to senior surgeons.   MATERIALS AND METHODS We reviewed the operative approach to six different general pediatric surgical procedures from 2000 to 2012, including appendectomy, fundoplication, gastrostomy tube placement, pyloromyotomy, colectomy, and lobectomy (lung). The percentage of MIS cases was calculated for each procedure annually. Each year six to nine fellowship-trained pediatric surgeons operated at our institution. Three surgeons completed training in the era of MIS (hired in 2001, 2007, and 2009) and remained on staff for at least 3 years.   RESULTS In 2000, 49% of procedures were performed with MIS. This increased to 98% in 2013 (P<.0001). Appendectomy, pyloromyotomy, and fundoplication demonstrated early adoption and uniform use of laparoscopy (>85%) by 2007. Gastrostomy tube placement reached 90% laparoscopy utilization in 2009. Lobectomy (lung) and colectomy also reached >80% MIS use in 2009 and 2010, respectively. The same trends were seen when looking only at senior surgeons who completed training prior to 2000.   CONCLUSIONS The hiring of junior surgeons with MIS training was associated with an increase in adoption of MIS techniques by the entire group. Procedures that were introduced early in the MIS era demonstrated a gradual rise toward uniform adoption of MIS techniques. More advanced and recently adopted MIS techniques demonstrated a rapid rise to uniform adoption.
INTRODUCTION Despite appendicitis being one of the most common surgical emergencies in the pediatric population, there is still a great deal of debate among pediatric surgeons regarding the workup and treatment.   MATERIALS AND METHODS In an interactive Web symposium consisting of 130 pediatric surgeons from various regions of the world, questions about diagnosis and management of appendicitis were displayed on the screen. The audience was asked to respond to the poll questions. The questions asked to the participants pertained to an example case of a 12-year-old boy presenting to the emergency department with the classic history and exam for appendicitis.   RESULTS The total number of respondents varied between 30 and 37, giving response rates of 23%-28%. Sixty-six percent of respondents would not order imaging. Thirty-one percent said that they would order ultrasound. No participant would order a computed tomography scan, whereas 5% would order some other form. Ninety-five percent of respondents said that they would treat the patient operatively. The majority (89%) of the participants felt comfortable waiting until morning to operate on the patient if the patient arrived at 11 p.m. Fifty-seven percent stated that they would use a three-port laparoscopic approach, and 38% would use a single port, whereas 5% would use an open surgical approach. The majority (34%) reported being able to visualize the appendix as the greatest benefit to using laparoscopy. Fifty-seven percent would give the patient one additional dose of antibiotics and then discharge him 24 hours later following treatment for acute, nonperforated appendicitis. Twenty percent of respondents would give no further antibiotics and would discharge the patient from the recovery room or soon after. Sixteen percent would not give any additional antibiotics and would discharge him 24 hours postoperatively, whereas 6% would give one additional dose of antibiotics and discharge him soon after.   CONCLUSIONS The use of virtual broadcasts affords a unique opportunity to surgeons around the world to share and learn from each other.
BACKGROUND Surgical errors result from faulty decision-making, misperceptions and the application of suboptimal problem-solving strategies, just as often as they result from technical failure. To date, surgical training curricula have focused mainly on the acquisition of technical skills. The aim of this review was to assess the validity of methods for improving situational awareness in the surgical theatre.   METHODS A search was conducted in PubMed, Embase, the Cochrane Library and PsycINFO using predefined inclusion criteria, up to June 2014. All study types were considered eligible. The primary endpoint was validity for improving situational awareness in the surgical theatre at individual or team level.   RESULTS Nine articles were considered eligible. These evaluated surgical team crisis training in simulated environments for minimally invasive surgery (4) and open surgery (3), and training courses focused at training non-technical skills (2). Two studies showed that simulation-based surgical team crisis training has construct validity for assessing situational awareness in surgical trainees in minimally invasive surgery. None of the studies showed effectiveness of surgical crisis training on situational awareness in open surgery, whereas one showed face validity of a 2-day non-technical skills training course.   CONCLUSION To improve safety in the operating theatre, more attention to situational awareness is needed in surgical training. Few structured curricula have been developed and validation research remains limited. Strategies to improve situational awareness can be adopted from other industries.
BACKGROUND This is the first survey to assess and quantify the level of satisfaction among the integrated vascular surgery residents.   METHODS An anonymous 13-question survey was electronically distributed to 225 members of the Society of Vascular Surgery Resident listserv. The questions were a combination of multiple choice, free response, and 5-point Leichhardt scale. Satisfaction was defined as a score of 3 or higher on a 5-point scale.   RESULTS Sixty-nine of 225 responded to the survey with fairly equal distribution across the postgraduate years. Trainees reported high rates of satisfaction, >90%, with regards to faculty, educational curriculum, case selection, their peers and interactions with the general surgery residents and faculty. Among nonvascular rotations, critical care, acute care services and/or trauma and cardiothoracic were most frequently rated as satisfactory (100%, 95%, and 92%, respectively). Minimally invasive and bariatric were rated as least satisfactory at 47% and 44%.   CONCLUSIONS Overall vascular residents are satisfied with various aspects of their respective programs. Critical care, acute care services and/or trauma, and cardiothoracic were most universally deemed beneficial to overall education, whereas other rotations have more diverse responses, suggesting very program-specific distinctions between the services.
INTRODUCTION Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is a technically challenging procedure performed by both surgeons and gastroenterologists. There is controversy in the field regarding the training necessary to perform ERCP. Widely disparate requisite volumes of experience to achieve proficiency have been published by representatives of each specialty. The basis for these differences has not been fully explored, with particular reference to the cognitive mindset of the different specialties.   METHODS Structured cognitive task analytic interviews were conducted with 7 expert gastroenterologists and 4 expert surgeons from 4 institutions, each of whom performs ERCP as a common procedure in their clinical practice. A qualitative analysis and grounded theory approach was used, focusing specifically on duct cannulation as a critical procedural element. Transcripts were analyzed using Atlas.ti software.   RESULTS The qualitative analysis of 11 transcripts identified 173 unique codes from a total of 653 quotes. In all, 5 themes were found to describe the codes: judgment, teaching, techniques, principles, and equipment. Significant differences were noted between gastroenterologists and surgeons across these themes. Gastroenterologists placed emphasis on issues of judgment including rationale, and emphasized explanation and clarification in teaching. Surgeons placed more emphasis on use of visual cues, and emphasized technique and equipment nuances.   CONCLUSION The data suggest that gastroenterologists deconstruct ERCP competence based on application of rules and rationale through reflection. Surgeons focus more on visual and tactile cues in task deconstruction, and may be more likely to measure proficiency based on technical response to such cues. Based on this study, it is proposed that both specialties might have complementary roles in training therapeutic endoscopists.
In 2007, the first trainee-led surgical research network was founded in the United Kingdom (UK). The West Midlands Research Collaborative was started by a group of enthusiastic adult surgical trainees who saw the benefits of altruistic collaboration to generate high quality, multicenter research. Seeing the success of their research projects, including randomized controlled trials, trainees in other regions and specialties were spurred on to founding their own research collaboratives. The Pediatric Surgical Trainee Research Network was started in 2011 by a group of UK trainees with the aim to promote, facilitate, and encourage trainee-led research in pediatric surgery. This article summarizes the history and evolution of the trainee collaborative surgical research. It examines the challenges which multicenter research entails and the steps the collaboratives have taken to overcome them. We describe some of the projects which have been successfully completed and the benefits that the trainee networks have for patients and surgeons alike.
Surveys are an important research tool to evaluate the practice patterns of physicians. In the medical literature, practice surveys are increasingly used in specialties, such as pediatric surgery, characterized by the lack of sufficient evidence-based literature due to the rarity of the conditions treated. To maintain a level that yields to a meaningful scientific contribution the design, data collection and analysis of the survey have to be rigorous. Herein, we describe the general principles of survey methodology, we report the benefits and limitations of this statistical method, and we discuss the value of surveys in pediatric surgery.
Technical competence is an essential aspect of intraoperative performance but is in itself insufficient to ensure an optimal surgical outcome. A list of other skills complement technical ability and these relate, among others, to surgical judgment and intraoperative decision-making processes as well as the role of the operating surgeon as leader of the surgical team. This article outlines the composite set of nontechnical skills (NTS) and the factors which influence surgical performance by virtue of this skill set. A framework has been developed to allow identification, teaching, and assessment of NTS known as Nontechnical Skills for Surgeons (NOTSS), and the relevance and influence of NOTSS during the intraoperative performance of pediatric surgery is presented.
It is a fundamental value of the surgical profession to improve care for its patients. In the last 100 years, the principles of prospective quality improvement have started to work their way into the traditional method of retrospective case review in morbidity and mortality conference. This article summarizes the history of 'improvement science' and its intersection with the field of surgery. It attempts to clarify the principles and jargon that may be new or confusing to surgeons with a different vocabulary and experience. This is done to bring the significant power and resources of improvement science to the traditional efforts to improve surgical care.
Quality improvement (QI) has become a focus of contemporary surgical practice. The purpose of this review is to provide a framework of working knowledge regarding QI for the practicing surgeon. QI design, implementation methods, measurement tactics, statistical analysis, and presentation tools based on the Institute of Healthcare Improvement model are reviewed. Additional principles to optimize QI success such as fostering communication, building a culture of QI, leadership involvement, and financial planning are also explored. Lastly, resources for QI education and teaching are provided for those interested in learning more about this expanding field.
Traditional surgical attitude regarding error and complications has focused on individual failings. Human factors research has brought new and significant insights into the occurrence of error in healthcare, helping us identify systemic problems that injure patients while enhancing individual accountability and teamwork. This article introduces human factors science and its applicability to teamwork, surgical culture, medical error, and individual accountability.
From the time of Earnest Codman until recently, measuring and improving quality has variably been viewed as a supportive group in the hospital, or an irritating 'fringe' movement in health care. A more thoughtful view of quality improvement (QI) is that it is a central tenet of surgical professionalism, and really what we signed up for when we accepted the responsibility of healing patients using surgery as our methodology. The following article uses a patient safety event to highlight the successful use of a well-known method of improving care, while engaging trainees in the principles of physician engagement, accountability, and professionalism.
Variation in care and outcomes are common in the management of children with surgical diseases. Differences in the availability of resources, patient and family preferences, ever-increasing fiscal pressure, and lack of high-quality data to guide clinical decision making are just a few factors that contribute to both the over and under-utilization of healthcare resources. Identification of data-driven, value-based 'best practices' that are sensitive to differences in resource availability and patient preferences may be an important first step in establishing a practical framework for reducing unwarranted practice variation. The goal of this article is to explore the causes and influence of practice variation using appendicitis as a common condition to illustrate key concepts, and to propose solutions to mitigate unwarranted practice variation while preserving the spirit of innovation necessary to advance the field.
The role of the healthcare organization is shifting and must overcome the challenges of fragmented, costly care, and lack of evidence in practice, to reduce cost, ensure quality, and deliver high-value care. Notable gaps exist within the expected quality and delivery of pediatric healthcare, necessitating a change in the role of the healthcare organization. To realize these goals, the use of collaborative networks that leverage massive datasets to provide information for the development of learning healthcare systems will become increasingly necessary as efforts are made to narrow the gap in healthcare quality for children. By building upon the lessons learned from early collaborative efforts and other industries, operationalizing new technologies, encouraging clinical-community partnerships, and improving performance through transparent pursuit of meaningful goals, pediatric surgery can increase the adoption of best practices by developing collaborative networks that provide evidence-based clinical decision support and accelerate progress toward a new culture of delivering high-quality, high-value, and evidenced-based pediatric surgical care.
In surgery, quality improvement efforts have evolved from the traditional case-by-case review typical for morbidity and mortality conferences to more accurate and comprehensive data collection accomplished through participation in national registries such as the National Surgical Quality Improvement Program. Gaining administrative support to participate in these kinds of initiatives and commitment of the faculty and staff to make change in a data-driven manner rather than as a reaction to individual events can be a challenge. This article guides the reader through the process of interacting with administrative leadership to gain support for evidence-based quality improvement endeavors. General principles that are discussed include stakeholder engagement, taking advantage of preexisting resources, and the sharing of data in order to shape QI efforts and demonstrate their effectiveness.
In 2015, the American College of Surgeons (ACS) has begun to verify hospitals and ambulatory centers which meet consensus based optimal resource standards as 'Children柳s Surgical Centers.' The intent is to identify children-specific resources available within an institution and using a stratification system similar to the ACS Trauma Program match these to the needs of infants and children with surgical problems. This review briefly summarizes the history, supporting data and processes which drove this initiative.
Innovation is a crucial part of surgical history that has led to enhancements in the quality of surgical care. This comprises both changes which are incremental and those which are frankly disruptive in nature. There are situations where innovation is absolutely required in order to achieve quality improvement or process improvement. Alternatively, there are innovations that do not necessarily arise from some need, but simply are a new idea that might be better. All change must assure a significant commitment to patient safety and beneficence. Innovation would ideally enhance patient care quality and disease outcomes, as well stimulate and facilitate further innovation. The tensions between innovative advancement and patient safety, risk and reward, and demonstrated effectiveness versus speculative added value have created a contemporary 'surgical conundrum' that must be resolved by a delicate balance assuring optimal patient/provider outcomes. This article will explore this delicate balance and the rules that govern it. Recommendations are made to facilitate surgical innovation through clinical research. In addition, we propose options that investigators and institutions may use to address competing priorities.
INTRODUCTION Pediatric surgical trainees worldwide face pressures from expansion of programs and training positions, subspecialization, regionalization, restrictions of working hours, and rigid training criteria. The era of apprenticeship training has long gone, and surgical education needs to be responsive and adapt to newer challenges. The aim of this study was to examine the teaching provision component of pediatric surgical training in the UK.   METHOD A national teaching survey was sent to UK pediatric surgery trainees in 2010 and compared to results of a repeat survey in 2015. Analysis was carried out to compare type of teaching, trends in teaching delivery, quality, and attendance over time.   RESULTS Regional variability was noted in teaching programs. Both provision of educational activities and ability to attend teaching improved between 2010 and 2015. Despite this, overall trainee satisfaction remained low, with 50% and 52% of respondents describing their teaching as 'good' or 'excellent' in 2010 and 2015, respectively (P=0.84). Seventy-five percent of centers provided simulation training, and 25% of respondents had regional teaching provided. Survey response rate was comparable between 2010 and 2015.   CONCLUSION Variability in national educational provision was observed. We suggest regular national audit of educational activity and responsive adaption to external pressures on training if competent surgeons are to be the product of contemporary pediatric surgery training programs.
Global surgery has come of age as an emerging discipline poised to impact health care worldwide with a concerted plan of action and wide stakeholder support. Much less can be said about global pediatric surgery, despite a growing awareness of the global burden of pediatric surgical disease. The author describes his exposure to this burden of disease as a pediatric surgeon working in resource-limited countries in Africa and outlines his personal journey from recognizing the burden to measuring it and eventually attempting to address it. The article, based on the Hugh Greenwood International Lecture at the 2015 BAPS Congress, reviews what is known so far within global pediatric surgery, what is currently happening, and what lies ahead.
BACKGROUND Surgical residency training aims to prepare the surgical resident to become an independent practitioner of surgery. Because surgical residency training remains the sole educational channel to prepare surgeons for independent practice, our study aimed to explore the effect of resident involvement in surgery across a broad spectrum of surgical specialties to answer questions patients, surgeons, and surgical residency program directors may have concerning the effect of having residents participate in performing surgical operations.   STUDY DESIGN This analysis used the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS NSQIP) database to establish whether patients having operations involving residents were at a risk of postoperative mortality or morbidity similar to patients having operations performed by attending surgeons alone, across a wide array of surgical procedures.   RESULTS For operations in which residents were involved, the adjusted odds ratio (OR) for mortality was 0.93 (95% CI 0.90 to 0.97), as compared with the group of patients on whom attending surgeons operated alone without any level of resident involvement. For operations in which residents were involved, the adjusted OR for morbidity was 1.02 (95% CI 1.00 to 1.04), as compared with the group of patients on whom attending surgeons operated alone without any level of resident involvement. There was a slightly statistically significantly higher risk of cardiac and respiratory morbidities in the group with any level of resident involvement as compared with the 'attending alone' group.   CONCLUSIONS Our study confirms that, across different surgical subspecialties, resident involvement in surgery is associated with comparable morbidity and lower mortality outcomes. This provides a reassuring answer to patients, attending surgeons, and surgical program directors.
'Big data' is the next frontier of medicine. We now have the ability to generate and analyze large quantities of healthcare data. Although interpreting and integrating this information into clinical practice poses many challenges, the potential benefits of personalized medicine are seemingly without limit.
BACKGROUND Medicine has historically been a male-dominated field, and there remains a stereotype that men are better physicians than women. For female residents, and in particular female surgical residents, chronically contending with this stereotype can exact a toll on their psychological health. The objective of this study was to determine the relationship between women surgeons' psychological health and their perception of other people's endorsement of the stereotype (stereotype perception).   STUDY DESIGN This is a correlational study based on survey data collected from 14 residency programs at one medical center from September 2010 to March 2011. The participants were 384 residents (representing an 80% response rate). The main survey measures were the Dupuy Psychological General Well-Being Scale and the Maslach Burnout Inventory.   RESULTS Among female surgical residents, we found that those with higher degrees of stereotype perception had poorer psychological health than those with lower degrees of stereotype perception (棺 = -0.44, p = 0.002). For men, there was no relationship between stereotype perception and psychological health (棺 = 0.015; p = 0.92). Among nonsurgeons, there was no relationship between stereotype perception and psychological health for either women or men (棺 = -0.016; p = 0.78; 棺 = -0.0050; p = 0.97, respectively).   CONCLUSIONS The data suggest that women in surgical training, but not men, can face a stressor--stereotype perception--that is negatively associated with their psychological health. This same relationship does not seem to exist for women in nonsurgical training programs. Efforts should be made to further understand this relationship and investigate possible interventions to level the playing field for male and female surgical trainees.
A key figure in the development of anaesthesia in Russia was the surgeon Nikolay Ivanovich Pirogov (1810-1881). He experimented with ether and chloroform and organised the general introduction of anaesthesia in Russia for patients undergoing surgery. He was the first to perform systematic research into anaesthesia-related morbidity and mortality. More specifically, he was one of the first to administer ether anaesthesia on the battlefield, where the principles of military medicine that he established remained virtually unchanged until the outbreak of the Second World War.
Surgery is common in older adults, so geriatric and surgical providers need to develop expertise in the care of older adults undergoing surgery. The Co-management of Older Operative Patients En Route Across Treatment Environments (CO-OPERATE) program is a clinical and educational collaboration between geriatrics and several surgical specialties at Veterans Affairs Health Care Connecticut. Individuals in CO-OPERATE are co-managed during the pre-, peri-, and postoperative periods. General surgery, urology, vascular surgery, orthopedics, cardiothoracic surgery and neurosurgery all participate in the program, with geriatrics expertise provided by a geriatrician, geriatric nurse practitioner and a geriatric clinical pharmacist. In the initial 3 years, there were 211 CO-OPERATE participants; 31% were evaluated preoperatively, and 62% of the individuals seen preoperatively were seen in clinic. There was a median of three recommendations per consultation. At discharge, 56% returned to the community. Individuals seen preoperatively were more likely to return to the community (63%) than those seen after surgery (50%, P = .10). Geriatrics co-management with a variety of surgical specialties is feasible and may be associated with higher rates of discharge back to the community.
OBJECTIVE In 2008, a Position Statement of the Society of University Surgeons (SUS) recommended the creation of institutional surgical innovation committees (SICs) to ensure appropriate oversight of surgical innovations. The purpose of this study was to determine the level of awareness of the position statement, and how innovations are handled in academic departments of surgery.   METHODS An electronic survey was designed to determine the level of awareness of the SUS recommendations among members of the Society of Surgical Chairs; the existence and characteristics of SICs; and alternative means of oversight of surgical innovations.   RESULTS The survey was distributed to 150 persons, and 65 (43%) surveys were returned; 84% reported their institution promoted innovative surgery as a strength, but 55% were unaware of the SUS recommendations; 23% reported that their institution has an SIC, and 20% said their institution has discussed or plans an SIC. Existing SICs have a median of 7 members; 57% reviewed 3 or fewer procedures in the prior year; and only 7% reviewed 10 or more. The majority of respondents reported alternative mechanisms of oversight, including morbidity/mortality conferences (88%), peer review (77%), and outcomes registries (51%).   CONCLUSIONS A minority of Surgery Department Chairs is aware of the SUS Position Statement. Although most reported surgical innovation was an institutional strength, only 23% had an SIC and most rely on other mechanisms of oversight. It is unclear whether academic surgical departments are committed to providing education and awareness of the appropriate development and implementation of surgical innovations.
OBJECTIVES Synthesize the findings from individual qualitative studies about surgeons' account of their practice.   BACKGROUND Social and contextual factors of practice influence doctors' well-being and therapeutic relationships. Little is known about surgery, but it is generally assumed that surgeons are not affected by them.   METHODS We searched international publications (2000-2012) to identify relevant qualitative research exploring how surgeons talk about their practice. Meta-ethnography (a systematic analysis of qualitative literature that compensates for the potential lack of generalizability of the primary studies and provides new insight by their conjoint interpretation) was used to identify key themes and synthesize them.   RESULTS We identified 51 articles (>1000 surgeons) from different specialties and countries. Two main themes emerged. (i) The patient-surgeon relationship, described surgeons' characterizations of their relationships with patients. We identified factors influencing surgical decision making, communication, and personal involvement in the process of care; these were surgeon-related, patient-related, and contextual. (ii) Group relations and culture described perceived issues related to surgical culture (image and education, teamwork, rules, and guidelines); it highlighted the influence of a social dimension on surgical practice. In both themes, we uncovered an emotional dimension of surgeons' practice.   CONCLUSIONS Surgeons' emphasis on technical aspects, individuality, and performance seems to impede a modern patient-centered approach to care and to act as a barrier to well-being. Our findings suggest that taking into account the relational and emotional dimensions of surgical practice (both with patients and within the institution) might improve surgical innovation, surgeons' well-being, and the attractiveness of this specialty.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES The increasing use and acceptance of robotic platforms calls for the need to train not only established surgeons but also residents and fellow trainees within the context of the traditional residency and fellowship program. Our study aimed to clarify the current status of robotic training in gynecologic fellowship programs in the United States.   METHODS This was a Web-based survey of four gynecology fellowship programs in the United States from November 2010 to March 2011. Programs were selected based on their geographic areas. A questionnaire with 43 questions inquiring about robotic surgery performance and training was sent to the programs and either a fellow or the fellowship director was asked to complete. Participation was voluntary.   RESULTS We had 102 responders (18% respond rate) with an almost equal response rate from all four gynecologic fellowships, with a median response rate of 25% (range 21-29%). Minimally Invasive Surgery (MIS) and Gynecologic Oncology (Gyn Onc) fellowships had the highest rate of robotic training in their fellowship curriculum-95% and 83%, respectively. Simulator training was used as a training tool in 74% of Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery (FPMRS); however, just 22% of Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility fellowships had simulator training. Eighty-seven percent of Gyn Onc fellows graduate with >50 robotic cases, but this was 0% for Reproductive Endocrinology Infertility fellows.   CONCLUSION Our study showed that the use of a robotic system was built into fellowship curriculum of >80% of MIS and Gyn Onc fellowship programs that were entered in our study. Simulator training has been used widely in Ob&Gyn fellowship programs as part of their robotic training curriculum.
Tissue engineering ex vivo and direct cellular application with bioscaffolds in vivo has allowed surgeons to restore and establish function throughout the human body. The evidence for regenerative surgery is growing, and consequently there is a need for the development of more advanced regenerative surgery facilities. Regenerative medicine in the surgical field is changing rapidly and this must be reflected in the design of any future operating suite. The theater environment needs to be highly adaptable to account for future significant advances within the field. Development of purpose built, combined operating suites and tissue-engineering laboratories will provide the facility for modern surgeons to treat patients with organ deficits, using bespoke, regenerated constructs without the need for immunosuppression.
A maternal-fetal medicine (MFM) subspecialist has advanced knowledge of the medical, surgical, obstetrical, fetal, and genetic complications of pregnancy and their effects on both the mother and fetus. MFM subspecialists are complementary to obstetric care providers in providing consultations, co-management, or transfer of care for complicated patients before, during, and after pregnancy. The MFM subspecialist provides peer and patient education and performs research concerning the most recent approaches and treatments for obstetrical problems, thus promoting risk-appropriate care for these complicated pregnancies. The relationship between the obstetric care provider and the MFM subspecialist depends on the acuity of the maternal and/or fetal condition and the local resources. To achieve the goal of promoting early access and sustained adequate prenatal care for all pregnant women, we encourage collaboration with obstetricians, family physicians, certified midwives, and others, and we also encourage providing preconception, prenatal, and postpartum care counseling and coordination. Effective communication between all obstetric care team members is imperative. This special report was written with the intent that it would be broad in scope and appeal to a diverse readership, including administrators, allowing it to be applied to various systems of care both horizontally and vertically. We understand that these relationships are often complex and there are more models of care than could be addressed in this document. However, we aimed to promote the development of a highly effective team approach to the care of the high-risk pregnancy that will be useful in the most common models for obstetric care in the United States. The MFM subspecialist functions most effectively within a fully integrated and collaborative health care environment. This document defines the various roles that the MFM subspecialist can fulfill within different heath care systems through consultation, co-management, and transfer of care, as well as education, research, and leadership.
BACKGROUND The splintering of general surgery into subspecialties in the past decade has brought into question the relevance of a continued emphasis on traditional general surgical training. With the majority of trainees now expressing a preference to subspecialise early, this study sought to identify if the requirement for proficiency in managing general surgical conditions has reduced over the past decade through comparison of general and specialty surgical admissions at a tertiary referral center.   METHODS A cross-sectional review of all surgical admissions at Cork University Hospital was performed at three individual time points: 2002, 2007 & 2012. Basic demographic details of both elective & emergency admissions were tabulated & analysed. Categorisation of admissions into specialty relevant or general surgery was made using International guidelines.   RESULTS 11,288 surgical admissions were recorded (2002:2773, 2007:3498 & 2012:5017), showing an increase of 81 % over the 10-year period. While growth in overall service provision was seen, the practice of general versus specialty relevant emergency surgery showed no statistically significant change in practice from 2002 to 2012 (p = 0.87). General surgery was mostly practiced in the emergency setting (84 % of all emergency admissions in 2012) with only 28 % elective admissions for general surgery. A reduction in length of stay was seen in both elective (3.62-2.58 bed days, p = 0.342) & emergency admissions (7.36-5.65, p = 0.026).   CONCLUSIONS General surgical emergency work continues to constitute a major part of the specialists practice. These results emphasize the importance of general surgical training even for those trainees committed to sub-specialisation.
BACKGROUND Situational needs of health care facilities inform the optimal allocation of resources and quality improvement efforts. This study examines surgical care delivery metrics at a tertiary care institution in Liberia.   METHODS We retrospectively reviewed operative and ward logbooks from January 1 to December 31, 2012. Data parameters included patients' age, diagnosis, procedure, mortality, and perioperative provider information.   RESULTS In 2012, 1,036 operations were performed. The breakdown of adult surgical cases reveals 452 (45.1%) general surgery operations, 192 (18.5%) orthopedic operations, and 180 (17.4%) ophthalmic operations. Other significant case volume included urologic 53 (5.1%), ENT 36 (3.5%), neurosurgical 31 (3.0%), vascular 24 (2.3%), and plastic 14 (1.4%) operations. Pediatric patients accounted for 24.5% (243) of surgical cases, and 9% of pediatric surgical cases were for hydrocephalus. General, spinal, and total intravenous anesthesia was provided by non-physician personnel, except when surgeons provided their own anesthesia. Ward logs documented 7.4% mortality among all patients admitted to the surgical ward, most of which occurred after exploratory laparotomy (44%), in burn (14%) patients, and in patients with head/neck emergencies (12%).   CONCLUSIONS This operative log review can be used to identify surgical practice patterns, needs, and deficits in order to inform the growth of surgical capacity at Liberia's only tertiary medical institution. Using this data to identify critical areas of high-yield operations (e.g., for pediatric hydrocephalus), or excessively high mortality rates (e.g., in burn care), can focus the direction of limited resources toward areas of need. While the heavy reliance on non-consultant surgeons reflects human capacity shortages and a pressing need for postgraduate training programs, identifying the breadth of surgical expertise demonstrated in these operative logs reveals the proficiencies required of surgeons to provide comprehensive surgical care in this setting.
INTRODUCTION Surgical procedures present an immense risk to patients, and adverse patient outcomes are frequently due to substandard non-technical skills amongst surgical staff. The implementation of a 19-item Surgical Safety Checklist, developed by the World Health Organization, is being enforced in operating theatres globally. The objective is to systematically analyze published literature to assess the use of the WHO Surgical Safety Checklist and their impact in on patient safety.   METHODS An English literature search was carried out using MEDLINE, EMBASE and PsycINFO databases. Relevant information was extracted relating to surgical specialities, compliance with the checklist, effects of checklist use on patient outcomes, and staff perceptions of the checklist. Selection was restricted to articles that used the WHO Surgical Safety Checklist.   RESULTS The literature search found 916 potentially relevant articles, which were narrowed down following an abstract review and a full text review. A final total of 16 studies were identified that observed the use of checklists in various surgical specialties; all surgical specialities (n-10), pediatric surgery (n-2), orthopedic surgery (n-2), otorhinolaryngology surgery (n-2).   DISCUSSION Surgical checklists have been shown to significantly improve patient outcomes subsequent to surgery, and therefore their use is being widely encouraged and accepted. Continual feedback could be given to maintain high checklist compliance, and thus high patient safety.   SUMMARY The recent use of checklists in surgery has shown improvements in patient outcomes post-operatively. A review was conducted to establish the impact of the checklist on different surgical specialities.
OBJECTIVE Asking for help in the operating room occurs within a surgical culture that has traditionally valued independence, decisiveness, and confidence. A tension exists between these deeply ingrained character traits and the new culture of team-based practice that emphasizes maximizing patient safety. The objective of this study is to explore surgeon-to-surgeon help-seeking behaviors during complex and unanticipated operative scenarios.   STUDY DESIGN Semistructured interviews were conducted with a purposeful sample of 14 consultant surgeons from multiple specialties. We used constructivist grounded theory to explore help-seeking experiences. Analysis occurred alongside and informed data collection. Themes were identified iteratively using constant comparisons.   SETTING The setting included 3 separate hospital sites in a Canadian academic health sciences center.   PARTICIPANTS A total of 14 consultant surgeons from 3 separate departments and 7 divisions were included.   RESULTS We developed the 'Call-Save-Threat' framework to conceptualize the help-seeking phenomenon. Respondents highlighted both explicit and tacit reasons for calling for help; the former included technical assistance and help with decision making, and the latter included the need for moral support, 'saving face,' and 'political cover.' 'The Save' included the provision of enhanced technical expertise, a broader intraoperative perspective, emotional support, and a learning experience. 'The Threat' included potential downsides to calling, which may result in near-term or delayed negative consequences. These included giving up autonomy as primary surgeon, threats to a surgeon's image as a competent practitioner, and a failure to progress with respect to independent judgment and surgical abilities.   CONCLUSIONS Our 'Call-Save-Threat' framework suggests that surgeons recurrently negotiate when and how to seek help in the interests of patient safety, while attending to the traditional cultural values of autonomy and decisive action. This has important implications for surgical postgraduate education and also throughout a surgeon's career trajectory.
BACKGROUND When learning multiple tasks, blocked or random training schedules may be used. We assessed the effects of blocked and random schedules on the acquisition and retention of laparoscopic skills.   METHODS Thirty-six laparoscopic novices were randomized to practice laparoscopic tasks using blocked, random, or no additional training. Participants performed immediate post-tests, followed by retention tests 6 weeks later. Outcomes included previously validated Fundamentals of Laparoscopic Surgery (FLS) and hand-motion efficiency scores.   RESULTS Both blocked and random groups had significantly higher FLS and hand-motion efficiency scores over baseline on post-tests for each task (P < .05) and higher overall FLS scores than controls on retention tests (P < .01). No difference was seen between the blocked and random groups in the amount of skill acquired or skill retained.   CONCLUSIONS Both blocked and random training schedules can be considered as valid training options to allow programs and learners to tailor training to their individual needs.
BACKGROUND Contemporary surgical education includes online resources, mobile platform applications, and simulation training. The aim of this study was to characterize educational tools used by surgical residents.   METHODS An anonymous web-based survey was distributed to 9,913 members of the Resident and Associate Society of the American College of Surgeons.   RESULTS We received 773 completed surveys. To prepare for examinations and expand fund of knowledge, most respondents used printed textbooks, online textbooks, and Surgical Council on Resident Education modules, respectively. Respondents used online textbooks and journal articles most often to investigate timely patient care issues. In contrast, mobile platform applications and online videos/lectures were used least. Fewer than half of respondents used simulators, limited by clinical duties, absence of feedback/supervision, and lack of working supplies.   CONCLUSIONS Traditional educational resources dominate trainee preferences, although utilization of the Surgical Council on Resident Education curriculum continues to grow. Simulators remain a required tool for laparoscopic training, and incorporation of structured feedback and improved supervision may improve utilization.
BACKGROUND The Association for Surgical Education established the Center for Excellence in Surgical Education Research and Training (CESERT) program in 1999 to support innovative research and education projects and programs that will advance surgical education. We sought to examine scholarly outcomes of the projects during the first 15혻years of the program.   METHODS E-mail surveys were sent to the 24 researchers who were awarded CESERT grants. Data collection focused on recipient professional experiences, publications, and presentations stemming from CESERT-funded research and impact on career development. For grant recipients who were unable to complete the survey, we obtained publication information on studies authored by the grant recipients that described the same grant-funded topic, described similar methods, and fell within the study timeline.   RESULTS Complete survey data were obtained from 18 of the 24 grant recipients. Grants were most commonly awarded to General Surgeons (40%) and Education and Psychology PhDs (24%). Overall, 23 of the 25 projects had reached completion at the time of contact, and from these, 70 articles were published or in press. Abstract presentations were more common, with respondents documenting 84 projects locally, nationally, and internationally. Grant awards ranged from $8,122 to $97,000, with an average of $39,026. In total, the Association for Surgical Education Foundation distributed $988,000 in grant funding from 1999 to 2013. Respondents reported that CESERT funding was critical to their career as it legitimized their pursuit of educational research, helped them establish multidisciplinary and multi-institutional collaborations, provided greater visibility for their research, and helped them develop an understanding of educational principles and grant writing skills.   CONCLUSIONS Overall, the CESERT program has produced remarkable results. The careful review process and monitoring protocol have ensured that high-potential studies are funded and successful. These data support continued efforts to garner resources such that CESERT grants may be awarded to fund high-quality, high-impact projects.
Education in the knowledge, skills, and attitudes necessary for a surgeon to perform at an expert level in the operating room, and beyond, must address all potential cognitive and technical performance gaps, professionalism and personal behaviors, and effective team communication. Educational strategies should also seek to replicate the stressors and distractions that might occur during a high-risk operation or critical care event. Finally, education cannot remain fixed in an apprenticeship model of 'See one, do one, teach one,' whereby patients are exposed to the risk of harm inherent to any learning curve. The majority of these educational goals can be achieved with the addition of simulation-based education (SBE) as a valuable adjunct to traditional training methods. This article will review relevant principles of SBE, explore currently available simulation-based educational tools for pediatric surgeons, and finally make projections for the future of SBE and performance assessments for pediatric surgeons.
BACKGROUND Perceptions underlie bias and drive behavior. This study assessed female surgeons' implicit perceptions of surgeons, with a focus on the roles of sex and demeanor (communal = supportive, associated with women; agentic = assertive, associated with men).   METHODS Electronic surveys were administered via the Association of Women Surgeons e-mail listserve to 550 post-training female surgeons. Each survey had one of the 4 possible scenarios that varied by surgeon sex (male/female) and surgeon demeanor (agentic/communal). Respondents rated their perception of the surgeon through 5 questions regarding preference and 5 questions regarding professional opinion (1 to 5 scale).   RESULTS We received 212 surveys. In both preference and professional scores, female surgeons were rated significantly higher compared with their male counterparts (4.7 vs 4.4 and 4.3 vs 4.0, respectively). Communal surgeons were rated significantly higher versus agentic surgeons in both scores (4.7 vs 4.4 and 4.6 vs 3.7).   CONCLUSIONS Female surgeons demonstrated a significant preference for female surgeons and for communal surgeons.
BACKGROUND Several challenges threaten the traditional premise of graduated independence in general surgery training, leading to a lack of readiness in graduating surgeons. The objective of this study was to determine the factors contributing to faculty decisions to grant residents autonomy in the operating room, the barriers to granting this autonomy, and the factors that facilitate entrustment.   STUDY DESIGN An anonymous online survey was distributed to 239 attending surgeons at 7 institutions. Questions consisted of open-ended and structured 5-point Likert scale questions. Descriptive statistics were calculated, and a qualitative analysis of free-text responses was performed to identify emergent themes.   RESULTS There were 116 attending surgeons who responded to the survey (49%). Factors most important to increasing resident responsibility and autonomy in the operating room were the resident's observed clinical skill and the attending surgeon's confidence level with the operation. Factors believed to prevent awarding graduated responsibility and autonomy in the operating room included an increased focus on patient outcomes, a desire to increase efficiency and finish operations earlier, and expectations of attending surgeon involvement by the hospital and patients. Among themes discerned in faculty responses to an open-ended question about the greatest challenges in graduate surgical education, 47% of faculty identified work-hour regulations/time restrictions. Fourteen percent pointed to a change to a shift-work mentality and decreased ownership of responsibility for patients by residents; 13% described a lack of resident autonomy due to increased supervision requirements.   CONCLUSIONS This study identified several factors that attending surgeons report as significant limitations to transitioning autonomy to surgical residents in the operating room. These issues must be addressed in a direct manner if progressive graduated responsibility to independence is to occur in the next era of graduate surgical training.
BACKGROUND Surgery is one of the most rapidly developing specialties in the past century. Diagnostic methods, operation technique, and knowledge of the diseases are changing continuously. In the academic history, lots of classic papers brought advances for surgery. They were accepted and cited numerously by the medical specialists all over the world. Citation analysis reflects the recognition a work has received in the scientific community by its peers.   DATA SOURCES The articles in the field of surgery have been cited at least 1,000 times since its publication to 2011 were analyzed. By categorizing the publication year, journals, authors, institutions, countries, life citation cycles, level of evidence provided, and characteristics of the topmost articles, we intended to determine what qualities make the articles important to the specialty. The methodology used in this study was based on the Science Citation Index Expanded database of Web of Science from Thomson Reuters. According to Journal Citation Reports of 2011, it indexes 8,336 journals with citation references across 176Web of Science categories in science edition. Level of evidence of these articles was graded according to the standard provided by Oxford Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine.   CONCLUSION Totally 36 articles have been cited at least 1,000 times since their publication to the year 2011. According to their citation histories, 35 articles were further evaluated. These topmost articles covered 8 subspecialties of surgery and were published in 17 journals. The publication year varied from 1940 to 1999 and the articles provided different level of evidence, most of which are retrospective studies of case series. Six articles were research articles including animal model, histology analysis, and laboratory research. The others were clinical articles. From the results of citation analysis, the classic articles are not always in top citations. In addition, some of these articles have no citations after several years post their publication. The introduction of a commonly used classification or scoring system is a major factor in propelling citation by other authors. The most cited articles in surgery present their long academic life in spite of their level of evidence and journal impact factor in which they were published.
BACKGROUND The fundamentals of endoscopic surgery (FES) examination measures the knowledge and skills required to perform safe flexible endoscopy. A potential limitation of the FES skills test is the size and cost of the simulator on which it was developed (GI Mentor II virtual reality endoscopy simulator; Simbionix LTD, Israel). A more compact and lower-cost alternative (GI Mentor Express) was developed to address this issue. The purpose of this study was to obtain evidence for the validity of scores obtained on the Express platform, so that it can be used for testing.   STUDY DESIGN General surgery residents at various levels of training and practicing endoscopists at five institutions participated. Each completed the five FES tasks on both simulator platforms in random order, with 3-14 days between tests. Scores were calculated using the same standardized computer-generated algorithm and compared using Pearson's correlation coefficient.   RESULTS There were 58 participants (mean age 32; 76% male) with a broad range of endoscopic experience. The mean (95% confidence interval) FES scores were 72 (67:77) on the GI Mentor II and 66 (60:71) on the Express. The correlation between scores on the two platforms was 0.86 (0.77:0.91; p < 0.0001).   CONCLUSION There is a high correlation between FES manual skills scores measured on the original platform and the new Express, providing evidence to support the use of the GI Mentor Express for FES testing.
OBJECTIVE Identify every paediatric surgical article published in 1998 and every paediatric surgical article published in 2013, and determine which study designs were used and whether they were appropriate for robustly assessing interventions in surgical conditions.   METHODS A systematic review was conducted according to a pre-specified protocol (CRD42014007629), using EMBASE and Medline. Non-English language studies were excluded. Studies were included if meeting population criteria and either condition or intervention criteria.   POPULATION Children under the age of 18, or adults who underwent intervention for a condition managed by paediatric surgeons when they were under 18 years of age.   CONDITION One managed by general paediatric surgeons.   INTERVENTION Used for treatment of a condition managed by general paediatric surgeons.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Studies were classified according to whether the IDEAL collaboration recommended their design for assessing surgical interventions or not. Change in proportions between 1998 and 2013 was calculated.   RESULTS 1581 paediatric surgical articles were published in 1998, and 3453 in 2013. The most commonly used design, accounting for 45% of studies in 1998 and 46.8% in 2013, was the retrospective case series. Only 1.8% of studies were RCTs in 1998, and 1.9% in 2013. Overall, in 1998, 9.8% of studies used a recommended design. In 2013, 11.9% used a recommended design (proportion increase 2.3%, 95% confidence interval 0.5% increase to 4% increase, p = 0.017).   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE A low proportion of published paediatric surgical manuscripts utilise a design that is recommended for assessing surgical interventions. RCTs represent fewer than 1 in 50 studies. In 2013, 88.1% of studies used a less robust design, suggesting the need for a new way of approaching paediatric surgical research.
BACKGROUND Over 10혻years ago, we introduced a two-day, evidence-based surgery course for surgical residents. During the last 4혻years, we evaluated its effect on the participants' evidence-based medicine (EBM) knowledge and skills.   METHODS Between 2012 and 2015, six courses were organised for residents of various surgical specialties of allied hospitals in the Amsterdam educational district. The courses covered the literature search, critical appraisal of surgical papers, and how to communicate and weigh the benefits and harms of surgical interventions. Proficiency regarding interpreting evidence was tested before and directly after the course using a modified Berlin questionnaire.   RESULTS One hundred participants attended the courses, comprising residents in surgery (61혻%), orthopaedics (16혻%), urology (7혻%), plastic surgery (7혻%), and surgical PhD students (9혻%), most of whom had already been taught EBM during their medical curriculum. Pre-course score levels were already fairly high (6.19 out of 10), but scores after the course were significantly higher (7.04); mean difference 0.85 (95혻% confidence interval 0.4-1.3). No significant differences were observed among the surgical specialties. Attendees highly appreciated the course.   CONCLUSIONS A two-day, evidence-based surgery course improved EBM aptitude of surgical residents. Hence, the course appears useful to refresh the EBM paradigm among future Dutch surgeons.
OBJECTIVE Certification of completion of training in general surgery requires proof of competence of index operations by means of 3, level-4 consultant-validated procedural-based assessments. The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between index operative experience and competence.   DESIGN Higher surgical trainee procedural-based assessments were compared with e-logbooks to determine the relationship between index operative experience and achievement of a third level 4 competence (L4C) related to the indicative procedures of emergency laparotomy (EL, target 100), Hartmann procedure (5), appendicectomy (80), segmental colectomy (20), laparoscopic cholecystectomy (50), and inguinal hernia (80).   SETTING All trainees are from a single UK Deanery.   PARTICIPANTS Consecutive 69 national training number higher surgical trainees were appointed to a single UK Deanery between 2007 and 2014.   RESULTS EL L4C was achieved at a median of 76 (15-136) cases, Hartmann procedure L4C at 17 (7-27) cases (p = 0.009 vs. EL), appendicectomy L4C at 107 (20-206) cases, segmental colectomy L4C at 52 (15-131) cases, laparoscopic cholecystectomy L4C at 72 (40-197) cases, and inguinal hernia L4C at 64 (17-132) cases.   CONCLUSIONS The learning curve and caseload required to demonstrate L4C related to specific procedure varied over 4-fold, from 0.76 to 3.4 times the national indicative target number guidance. Certification of completion of training operative logbook number targets should be reconsidered to better reflect the competencies demanded by the curriculum.
BACKGROUND The objective of this study was to characterize potential disparities in academic output, NIH-funding, and academic rank between male and female surgical faculty and identify subspecialties in which these differences may be more pronounced.   STUDY DESIGN Eighty metrics for 4,015 faculty members at the top-55 NIH-funded departments of surgery were collected. Demographic characteristics, NIH funding details, and scholarly output were analyzed. A new metric, academic velocity (V), reflecting recent citations is defined.   RESULTS Overall, 21.5% of surgical faculty are women. The percentage of female faculty is highest in science/research (41%) and surgical oncology (34%), and lowest in cardiothoracic surgery (9%). Female faculty are less likely to be full professors (22.7% vs 41.2%) and division chiefs (6.2% vs 13.6%). The fraction of women who are full professors is lowest in cardiothoracic surgery. Overall median numbers of publications/citations are lower for female faculty compared with male surgical faculty (21 of 364 vs 43 of 723, p < 0.001), and these differences are more pronounced for assistant professors. Current/previous NIH funding (21.3% vs 24%, p혻= NS) rates are similar between women and men, and surgical departments with more female full professors have higher NIH funding ranking (R(2)혻= 0.14, p < 0.05). In certain subspecialties, female associate and full professors outperform male counterparts. Overall, female authors have higher numbers of more recent citations.   CONCLUSIONS Subspecialty involvement and academic performance differences by sex vary greatly by subspecialty type and are most pronounced at the assistant professor level. Identification of potential barriers for entry of women into certain subspecialties, causes for the observed lower number of publications/citations among female assistant professors, and obstacles for attaining leadership roles need to be determined. We propose a new metric for assessment of publications/citations that can offset the effects of seniority differences between male and female faculty members.
INTRODUCTION There is an increased need for surgical trainees to acquire advanced laparoscopic skills as laparoscopy becomes the standard of care in many areas of general surgery. Since the introduction of minimally invasive surgery (MIS) fellowships, there has been a continuing debate as to whether these fellowships adversely affect general surgery resident exposure to laparoscopic cases. The aim of our study was to examine whether the introduction of an MIS fellowship negatively impacts general surgery residents' experience at a single academic center.   METHODS We describe the changes following establishment of MIS fellowship at an academic center. Resident case log system from the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education was queried to obtain all PGY 1-5 resident operative case logs. Two-year time period preceding and following the institution of an MIS fellowship at our institution in 2012 was compared. P values less than 0.05 were considered statistically significant.   RESULTS Following initiation of the MIS fellowship, an MIS service was established. The service comprised of a fellow, midlevel resident, and intern. Operative experience was examined. From 2010-2012 to 2012-2014, residents logged a total of 272 and 585 complex laparoscopic cases, respectively. There were 43 residents from 2010 to 2013 and 44 residents from 2013 to 2014. When the two time periods were compared, a trend of increased numbers for all procedures was noted, except laparoscopic GYN/genito-urinary procedures. Average percent increase in complex general surgery procedures was 249혻짹혻179.8혻%. Following establishment of a MIS fellowship, reported cases by residents were higher or similar to those reported nationally for laparoscopic procedures.   CONCLUSION Institution of an MIS fellowship had a favorable effect on general surgery resident operative education at a single academic training center. Residents may benefit from the presence of a fellowship at an academic center because they are able to participate in an increased number of complex laparoscopic cases.
BACKGROUND Traditionally cardiothoracic residents spent dedicated research time during general surgery equipping them for a potential academic career. Recent changes in training paradigms, including integrated programs that may not include research time, could affect혻the development of future academic cardiothoracic surgeons.   METHODS Responses to the 2015 Thoracic Surgery Directors' Association/Thoracic Surgery Residents' Association survey accompanying the in-training examination taken by current cardiothoracic surgery residents were analyzed. Three hundred fifty-four residents were surveyed with a response rate of 100%, although one was excluded from the analysis because of inconsistencies in responses. Statistical analysis included (2), Fisher's exact test, and multinomial logistic regression with significance set at a probability value of 0.05.   RESULTS Two hundred sixty-seven of 353 residents (76%) intended on performing research as part of their careers. Integrated residents as opposed to traditional residents (85% versus 69%; p혻= 0.003), males (78% versus 65%; p혻= 0.02), those pursuing additional training (85% versus 69%; p혻= 0.003), and those interested in academic careers (93% versus 33%; p < 0.001) were more likely to pursue research. Differences were also noted in specialty interest, with congenital and heart failure specialties most likely to pursue research careers (92% and 100%, respectively; p < 0.05). Residents intending on research careers were more likely to have had previous research experience, and the most common type of intended research was clinical outcomes (78%). On multinomial logistic regression, previous clinical outcomes research and academic practice were identified as predictors of a research career (odd ratios of 9.7 and 4.1, respectively; each p < 0.05).   CONCLUSIONS The majority of residents plan on pursuing research during their careers. Previous research experience appears to be a key determinant as well as specialty interest.
PURPOSE The predictive relationship between candidate selection criteria for surgical training programs and future performance during and at the completion of training has been investigated for several surgical specialties, however there is no interspecialty agreement regarding which selection criteria should be used. Better understanding the predictive reliability between factors at selection and future performance may help to optimize the process and lead to greater standardization of the surgical selection process.   METHODS PubMed and Ovid MEDLINE databases were searched. Over 560 potentially relevant publications were identified using the search strategy and screened using the Cochrane Collaboration Data Extraction and Assessment Template.   RESULTS 57 studies met the inclusion criteria. Several selection criteria used in the traditional selection demonstrated inconsistent correlation with subsequent performance during and at the end of surgical training. The following selection criteria, however, demonstrated good predictive relationships with subsequent resident performance: USMLE examination scores, Letters of Recommendation (LOR) including the Medical Student Performance Evaluation (MSPE), academic performance during clinical clerkships, the interview process, displaying excellence in extracurricular activities, and the use of unadjusted rank lists.   CONCLUSIONS This systematic review supports that the current selection process needs to be further evaluated and improved. Multicenter studies using standardized outcome measures of success are now required to improve the reliability of the selection process to select the best trainees.
Introduction The research fellowship scheme for surgeons in training run by The Royal College of Surgeons of England (RCS) had its 20th anniversary in 2013. A survey was undertaken to assess outcomes of the scheme during those 20 years. Methods Fellowship recipients were invited to complete an online 20-item questionnaire about their fellowship research and research activities since its completion. The questionnaire covered type of research undertaken, higher research degree enrolment, publications resulting from the fellowship research and subsequent research career. Results Of the 502 RCS fellowship recipients, 361 responded (72%). Their research covered a broad array of topics, Almost two-thirds (62%) undertook laboratory-based research and most of the remainder conducted patient-based clinical research. The vast majority (96%) of respondents had enrolled for a higher degree, with a high completion rate: 91% of fellowship recipients in the first 15 years of the scheme obtained their degree. Of the fellowships from the first 15 years of the scheme, between a fifth and a third of recipients subsequently held an academic position. The median number of peer reviewed articles and presentations per recipient was 3 and 6 respectively. Almost two-thirds (60%) of respondents had obtained funding for further research, with over half of these receiving grants from national research funding bodies. Conclusions The RCS research fellowship scheme has helped trainee surgeons to undertake research towards the start of their career. Most trainees used RCS fellowships as part of their funding towards a higher degree and this was regularly achieved, along with a number of peer reviewed publications. A significant proportion of fellowship recipients progressed into academic positions in surgery.
OBJECTIVE To determine the academic contribution as measured by number of publications, citations, and National Institutes of Health (NIH) funding from PhD scientists in US departments of surgery.   SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA The number of PhD faculty working in US medical school clinical departments now exceeds the number working in basic science departments. The academic impact of PhDs in surgery has not been previously evaluated.   METHODS Academic metrics for 3850 faculties at the top 55 NIH-funded university and hospital-based departments of surgery were collected using NIH RePORTER, Scopus, and departmental websites.   RESULTS MD/PhDs and PhDs had significantly higher numbers of publications and citations than MDs, regardless of academic or institutional rank. PhDs had the greatest proportion of NIH funding compared to both MDs and MD/PhDs. Across all academic ranks, 50.2% of PhDs had received NIH funding compared with 15.2% of MDs and 33.9% of MD/PhDs (P < 0.001). The proportion of PhDs with NIH funding in the top 10 departments did not differ from those working in departments ranked 11 to 50 (P = 0.456). A greater percentage of departmental PhD faculty was associated with increased rates of MD funding.   CONCLUSIONS The presence of dedicated research faculty with PhDs supports the academic mission of surgery departments by increasing both NIH funding and scholarly productivity. In contrast to MDs and MD/PhDs, PhDs seem to have similar levels of academic output and funding independent of the overall NIH funding environment of their department. This suggests that research programs in departments with limited resources may be enhanced by the recruitment of PhD faculty.
OBJECTIVE To explore the founding of the American Medical Association's Section on Surgery in 1859 and how it represented, on a national basis, the beginnings of organized surgery and the formal start of the professionalization and specialization of surgery in the United States.   BACKGROUND The broad social process of organization, professionalization, and specialization that began for various disciplines in America in the mid-19th century was a reaction to emerging economic, political, and scientific influences including industrialization, urbanization, and technology. For surgeons or, at least, those men who performed surgical operations, the efforts toward group organization provided a means to promote their skills and restrict competition.   METHODS An analysis of the published literature, and unpublished documents relating to the creation of the American Medical Association's Section on Surgery.   RESULTS During the 1850s and through the 1870s, a time when surgery was still not considered a separate branch of medicine, the organization of the American Medical Association's Section on Surgery provided the much needed encouragement to surgeons in their quest for professional and specialty recognition.   CONCLUSIONS The establishment of the American Medical Association's Section on Surgery in 1859 helped shape the nationwide future of the craft, in particular, surgery's rise as a specialty and profession.
Publishing clinical and research work for dissemination is a critical part of the academic process. Learning how to write an effective manuscript should be a goal for medical students and residents who hope to participate in publishing. While there are a number of existing texts that address how to write a manuscript, there are fewer guides that are specifically targeted towards surgery trainees. This review aims to direct and hopefully encourage surgery trainees to successfully navigate the process of converting ideas into a publication that ultimately helps understanding and improves the care of patients.
AIMS OF THE STUDY We hypothesized that there has been an increase in the number of successful litigation claims in pediatric surgery in England. Our aim was to report the incidence, causes, and costs of clinical negligence claims against the National Health Service (NHS) in relation to pediatric surgery.   MATERIALS AND METHODS We queried the NHS Litigation Authority (NHSLA) on litigation claims among children undergoing pediatric surgery in England (2004-2012). We decided a priori to only examine closed cases (decision and payment made). Data included year of claim, year of payment of claim, payment per claim, paid-to-closed ratio, and severity of outcome of clinical incident.   RESULTS Out of 112 clinical negligence claims in pediatric surgery, 93 (83%) were finalized-73 (65%) were settled and damages paid to the claimant and 20 (18%) were closed with no payment, and 19 (17%) remain open. The median payment was 짙13,537 (600-500,000) and median total cost borne by NHSLA was 짙31,445 (600-730,202). Claims were lodged at a median interval of 2 (0-13) years from time of occurrence with 55 (75%) cases being settled within the 3 years of being received. The commonest reasons for claims were postoperative complications (n=20, 28%), delayed treatment (n=16, 22%), and/or diagnosis (n=14, 19%). Out of 73, 17 (23%) closed claims resulted in case fatality. Conclusion: Two-thirds of all claims in pediatric surgery resulted in payment to claimant, and the commonest reasons for claims were postoperative complications, delayed treatment, and/or diagnosis. Nearly a quarter of successful claims were in cases where negligence resulted in case fatality. Pediatric surgeons should be aware of common diagnostic and treatment shortfalls as high-risk areas of increased susceptibility to clinical negligence claims.
PURPOSE Laparoscopic duodenal atresia (DA) repair is a relatively uncommon pediatric operation requiring advanced minimally invasive skills. Currently, there are no commercial simulators available that address surgeons' needs for refining skills associated with this procedure. The purposes of this study were (1) to create an anatomically correct, size-relevant model and (2) to evaluate the content validity of the simulator.   MATERIALS AND METHODS Radiologic images were used to create an abdominal domain consistent with a full-term infant. Fetal bovine tissue was used to complete the simulator. Following Institutional Review Board exempt determination, 18 participants performed the simulated laparoscopic DA repair. Participants completed a self-report, six-domain, 24-item instrument consisting of 4-point rating scales (from 1=not realistic to 4=highly realistic). Validity evidence relevant to test content and response processes was evaluated using the many-facet Rasch model, and evidence of internal structure (inter-item consistency) was estimated using Cronbach's alpha.   RESULTS The highest observed averages were for 'Value as a training and testing tool' (both observed averages=3.9), whereas the lowest ratings were 'Palpation of liver' (observed average=3.3) and 'Realism of skin' (observed average=3.2). The Global opinion rating was 3.2, indicating the simulator can be considered for use as is, but could be improved slightly. Inter-item consistency was high (慣=0.89).   CONCLUSIONS We have successfully created a size-appropriate laparoscopic DA simulator. Participants agreed that the simulator was relevant and valuable as a learning/testing tool. Prior to implementing this simulator as a training tool, minor improvements should be made, with subsequent evaluation of additional validation evidence.
BACKGROUND To date, no studies have reported nationwide adoption of acute care surgery (ACS) or identified structural and/or process variations for the care of emergency general surgery (EGS) patients within such models.   METHODS We surveyed surgeons responsible for EGS coverage at University Health Systems Consortium hospitals using an eight-page postal/e-mail questionnaire querying respondents on hospital and EGS structure/process measures. Survey responses were analyzed using descriptive statistics, univariate comparisons, and multivariable regression models.   RESULTS Of 319 potential respondents, 258 (81%) completed the surveys. A total of 81 hospitals (31%) had implemented ACS, while 134 (52%) had a traditional general surgeon on-call (GSOC) model. Thirty-eight hospitals (15%) had another model (hybrid). Larger-bed, university-based, teaching hospitals with Level 1 trauma center verification status located in urban areas were more likely to have adopted ACS. In multivariable modeling, hospital type, setting, and trauma center verification predicted ACS implementation. EGS processes of care varied, with 28% of the GSOC hospitals having block time versus 67% of the ACS hospitals (p < 0.0001), 45% of the GSOC hospitals providing ICU [intensive care unit] care to EGS patients in a surgical/trauma ICU versus 93% of the ACS hospitals (p < 0.0001), 5.7 짹 3.2 surgeons sharing call at GSOC hospitals versus 7.9 짹 2.3 surgeons at ACS hospitals (p < 0.0001), and 13% of the GSOC hospitals requiring in-house EGS call versus 75% of the ACS hospitals (p < 0.0001). Among ACS hospitals, there were variations in patient cohorting (EGS patients alone, 25%; EGS + trauma, 21%; EGS + elective, 17%; and EGS + trauma + elective, 30%), data collection (26% had prospective EGS registries), patient hand-offs (56% had attending surgeon presence), and call responsibilities (averaging 4.8 짹 1.3 calls per month, with 60% providing extra call stipend and 40% with no postcall clinical duties).   CONCLUSION The potential of the ACS on the national crisis in access to EGS care is not fully met. Variations in EGS processes of care among adopters of ACS suggest that standardized criteria for ACS implementation, much like trauma center verification criteria, may be beneficial.
BACKGROUND Trauma and emergency surgery continues to evolve as a surgical niche. The simple fact that The Journal of Trauma is now entitled The Journal of Trauma and Acute Care Surgery captures this reality. We sought to characterize the niche that trauma and emergency surgeons have occupied during the maturation of the acute care surgery model.   METHODS We analyzed the University Health System Consortium-Association of American Medical Colleges Faculty Practice Solutions Center database for the years 2007 to 2012 for specific current procedural terminology (CPT) codes. This database includes coding and billing data for more than 90 academic medical centers throughout the United States. We analyzed frequency counts and work relative value units (wRVUs) generated for specific codes to characterize the average trauma and emergency surgeon's work experience over time.   RESULTS We found that acute care surgeons generated 42.4% of wRVUs from procedural work and 57.6% from cognitive work. For cognitive work, critical care services generated the most wRVUs per year (25.2% of total), and subsequent hospital care was the most frequently performed activity (1,236.6 codes generated per year). For procedural work, laparoscopic cholecystectomies produced the most wRVUs per year (2.4% of total), and placement of a nontunneled catheter was the most frequently performed procedure (42.2 times per year). The average acute care surgeon performed the following numbers of procedures per year: 29.6 cholecystectomies and 20.0 appendectomies; 7.7 wound vacuum device changes; 5.9 implantation of mesh procedures; 4.9 splenectomies and 0.4 splenorrhaphies; 2.6 perirectal abscess drainage procedures; less than one component separation fascial hernia repair; and less than one video-assisted thoracic surgery.   CONCLUSION The modern acute care surgeon is a hybrid of critical care medicine physician and ever-evolving surgical interventionist. Acute care surgeons continue to do traditional trauma work while increasingly performing acute care surgeries. The work of acute care surgeons serves a growing role and fills a valuable niche in our health care system.
This 'What's new in instrumental dermatology' focuses on cutaneous oncologic surgery, base on a review of the 2012-2014 literature. First, the ability of dermatologists to make a good 'oncologic reading of tumors' is the key of radical surgical treatment. Advantages and disadvantages of the biopsy are discussed. Then, the second message is the management of anticoagulants, that should not be interrupted for skin surgery. Despite recommendations, this practice is not followed in 40% of cases; this point is critical because bleeding complications are minor compared to potential morbidity of thrombotic events when stopping these medications. Regarding infection, nasal carriage of Staphylococcus aureus is identified as a risk factor for wound infection. A preoperative shower with chlorhexidine and mupirocin topical decolonization of nostril reduces this risk. Surgical techniques are trying to reach minimalism, by reducing undermining and scarring. On the trunk, using deep slow resorbable sutures improve scarring. In addition using adhesive sutures (strip) reduce the wideness of scar. On the face, the lower third of the nose is the most challenging because of the free edges, which are deformable. In this location bilobed or trilobed transposition flap offer the advantage of remaining in the nasal aesthetic unit and not disturbing the free edges of the nasal orifices. Regarding scarring, early hypertrophic scar is now well defined and linked with transposition flaps of the nasal region. An early treatment with intralesional corticosteroid injection appears to be effective. Finally, the biological mechanism of the effectiveness of compression in the prevention and treatment of dystrophic scar is now clear. The mechanotransduction explain how a mechanical stress of the skin activates biological cell pathways, which regulate the quality of collagen synthesis and the arrangement of skin fibrosis.
INTRODUCTION The programmes of fast-track or enhanced recovery after surgery offer obvious advantages in terms of better postoperative outcomes and shorter hospital stay in many surgical specialties. However, the implementation of such programmes as strategic innovations has economic challenges that have not been well evaluated in a large scale, while they can influence the future of this innovation.   METHODS Simulation study was performed in 5 surgical units of digestive surgery, orthopaedics, and urologic surgery in the aim to help them to implement programmes of enhanced recovery. Several types of surgery were considered: colorectal, pancreatic, hepatic, hip, knee, shoulder, and bladder. All costs related to the implementation, hospitalisation (pre-, per-, and postoperative courses), and support of the project on the long-term, were calculated.   RESULTS The fixed and variable costs varied according to the surgical specialities. The calculation method allowed us to find that the gained standard value for one hospital-day was 180혻. The residual credit was as high as 202혻000혻 per year at the effective end of implementation in all surgical units, i.e. within 2-3 years.   CONCLUSION Beyond all medical advantages (namely better recovery for the patients, less postoperative morbidity, and reinforcement of the teamwork), the implementation of enhanced recovery programmes for high volume surgery will be cost-effective for our care units also in terms of health care performance.
Alfred-Louis-Dominique Richet was an anatomist and surgeon born in Dijon, France in 1816. He defended the teaching of clinical anatomy instead of descriptive anatomy, judged inappropriate to learn operative medicine. His name is associated with several anatomical structures that we cite in the present article.
The number of female surgeon is continuously increasing, while the total number of surgeon is decreasing. The author has faced many difficulties while working as a pediatric surgeon and a mother of three children. Those difficulties were caused by the traditional sexual role in our society and by a fixed idea that the priority for a surgeon should be his or her profession. Here, the author addressed some suggestions which could lead the society of surgeons to a gender-equal one, and could make surgery a great appeal to female surgeons and to the young generations which consider private life as important as their professions as well. Suggestions include a change the relationship between a female surgeon and her partner, a supplement of surgeons so that hospitals could change the traditional system of surgery. The author proposed to increase female managers intentionally, so that the sense of sexual difference would be diminished and proper evolution of the society would be achieved.
BACKGROUND Across Canada, graduates from several medical and surgical specialties have recently had difficulty securing practice opportunities, especially in specialties dependent on limited resources such as ophthalmology. We aimed to investigate whether resource constraints in the health care system have a greater impact on the volume of cataract surgery performed by recent graduates than on established physicians.   METHODS We used population-based administrative data from Ontario for the period Jan. 1, 1994, to June 30, 2013, to compare health services provided by recent graduates and established ophthalmologists. The primary outcome was volume of cataract surgery, a resource-intensive service for which volume is controlled by the province.   RESULTS When cataract surgery volume in Ontario entered a period of government-mandated zero growth in 2007, the mean number of cataract operations performed by recent graduates dropped significantly (-46.37 operations/quarter, 95% confidence interval [CI] -62.73 to -30.00 operations/quarter), whereas the mean rate for established ophthalmologists remained stable (+5.89 operations/quarter, 95% CI 95% CI -1.47 to +13.24 operations/quarter). Decreases in service provision among recent graduates did not occur for services without volume control. The proportion of recent graduates providing exclusively cataract surgery increased over the study period, and recent graduates in this group were 5.24 times (95% CI 2.15 to 12.76 times) more likely to fall within the lowest quartile for cataract surgical volume during the period of zero growth in provincial cataract volume (2007-2013) than in the preceding period (1996-2006).   INTERPRETATION Recent ophthalmology graduates performed many fewer cataract surgery procedures after volume controls were implemented in Ontario. Integrated initiatives involving multiple stakeholders are needed to address the issues facing recently graduated physicians in Canada.
Importance Despite the significant contribution of surgical spending to health care costs, most surgeons are unaware of their operating room costs.   Objective To examine the association between providing surgeons with individualized cost feedback and surgical supply costs in the operating room.   Design, Setting, and Participants The OR Surgical Cost Reduction (OR SCORE) project was a single-health system, multihospital, multidepartmental prospective controlled study in an urban academic setting. Intervention participants were attending surgeons in orthopedic surgery, otolaryngology-head and neck surgery, and neurological surgery (n=63). Control participants were attending surgeons in cardiothoracic surgery, general surgery, vascular surgery, pediatric surgery, obstetrics/gynecology, ophthalmology, and urology (n=186).   Interventions From January 1 to December 31, 2015, each surgeon in the intervention group received standardized monthly scorecards showing the median surgical supply direct cost for each procedure type performed in the prior month compared with the surgeon's baseline (July 1, 2012, to November 30, 2014) and compared with all surgeons at the institution performing the same procedure at baseline. All surgical departments were eligible for a financial incentive if they met a 5% cost reduction goal.   Main Outcomes and Measures The primary outcome was each group's median surgical supply cost per case. Secondary outcome measures included total departmental surgical supply costs, case mix index-adjusted median surgical supply costs, patient outcomes (30-day readmission, 30-day mortality, and discharge status), and surgeon responses to a postintervention study-specific health care value survey.   Results The median surgical supply direct costs per case decreased 6.54% in the intervention group, from $1398 (interquartile range [IQR], $316-$5181) (10637 cases) in 2014 to $1307 (IQR, $319-$5037) (11820 cases) in 2015. In contrast, the median surgical supply direct cost increased 7.42% in the control group, from $712 (IQR, $202-$1602) (16441 cases) in 2014 to $765 (IQR, $233-$1719) (17227 cases) in 2015. This decrease represents a total savings of $836147 in the intervention group during the 1-year study. After controlling for surgeon, department, patient demographics, and clinical indicators in a mixed-effects model, there was a 9.95% (95% CI, 3.55%-15.93%; P=.003) surgical supply cost decrease in the intervention group over 1 year. Patient outcomes were equivalent or improved after the intervention, and surgeons who received scorecards reported higher levels of cost awareness on the health care value survey compared with controls.   Conclusions and Relevance Cost feedback to surgeons, combined with a small departmental financial incentive, was associated with significantly reduced surgical supply costs, without negatively affecting patient outcomes.
Surgical residents cite increased income potential as a motivation for pursuing fellowship training, despite little evidence supporting this perception. Thus, our goal is to quantify the financial impact of surgical fellowship training on financial career value. By using Medical Group Management Association and Association of American Medical Colleges physician income data, and accounting for resident salary, student debt, a progressive tax structure, and forgone wages associated with prolonged training, we generated a net present value (NPV) for both generalist and subspecialist surgeons. By comparing generalist and subspecialist career values, we determined that cardiovascular (NPV = 698,931), pediatric (430,964), thoracic (239,189), bariatric (166,493), vascular (96,071), and transplant (46,669) fellowships improve career value. Alternatively, trauma (11,374), colorectal (44,622), surgical oncology (203,021), and breast surgery (326,465) fellowships all reduce career value. In orthopedic surgery, spine (505,198), trauma (123,250), hip and joint (60,372), and sport medicine (56,167) fellowships improve career value, whereas shoulder and elbow (4,539), foot and ankle (173,766), hand (366,300), and pediatric (489,683) fellowships reduce career NPV. In obstetrics and gynecology, reproductive endocrinology (352,854), and maternal and fetal medicine (322,511) fellowships improve career value, whereas gynecology oncology (28,101) and urogynecology (206,171) fellowships reduce career value. These data indicate that the financial return of fellowship is highly variable.
IMPORTANCE Incorporating deliberate practice (DP) into residency curricula may optimize education. DP includes educationally protected time, continuous expert feedback, and a focus on a limited number of technical skills. It is strongly associated with mastery level learning.   OBJECTIVE Determine if a multidisciplinary breast rotation (MDB) increases DP opportunities.   DESIGN Beginning in 2010, interns completed the 4-week MDB. Three days a week were spent in surgery and surgical clinic. Half-days were in breast radiology, pathology, medical oncology, and didactics. The MDB was retrospectively compared with a traditional community rotation (TCR) and a university surgical oncology service (USOS) using rotation feedback and resident operative volume. Data are presented as mean 짹 standard deviation.   SETTING Oregon Health and Science University in Portland, Oregon; an academic tertiary care general surgery residency program.   PARTICIPANTS General surgery residents at Oregon Health and Science University participating in either the MDB, TCR or USOS.   RESULTS A total of 31 interns rated the opportunity to perform procedures significantly higher for MDB than TCR or USOS (4.6 짹 0.6 vs 4.2 짹 0.9 and 4.1 짹 1.0, p < 0.05). MDB was rated higher than TCR on quality of faculty teaching and educational materials (4.5 짹 0.7 vs 4.1 짹 0.9 and 4.0 짹 1.2 vs 3.5 짹 1.0, p < 0.05). Interns operated more on the MDB than on the USOS and were more focused on breast resections, lymph node dissections, and port placements than on the traditional surgical rotation or USOS.   CONCLUSIONS The MDB incorporates multidisciplinary care into a unique, disease-specific, and educationally focused rotation. It is highly rated and affords a greater opportunity for DP than either the USOS or TCR. DP is strongly associated with mastery learning and this novel rotation structure could maximize intern education in the era of limited work hours.
PURPOSE Widespread adoption of minimally invasive surgery (MIS) techniques in pediatric surgery has progressed slowly, and the shift in practice patterns has been variable among surgeons. We hypothesized that a pediatric surgeon committed to MIS could effectively change surgical practice by creating an emphasis on MIS.   METHODS Annual case volumes from 2000 to 2009 at two tertiary care pediatric hospitals, one with a dedicated minimally invasive pediatric surgeon, were evaluated for trends in MIS for ten different operations. Univariate analyses of the differences between hospitals in the use of the open versus laparoscopic approach were performed. The Breslow-Day test was used to examine differences in use of laparoscopic procedures across hospitals in early versus middle and middle versus late time periods.   RESULTS Between the two hospitals, for 9 of the 10 types of surgery, the number of laparoscopic and open procedures differed significantly (p values ranged from <0.0001 to 0.003). Over the 10-year period, the hospital with a dedicated MIS surgeon had a larger proportion of procedures done laparoscopically for all years. This difference reached statistical significance for appendectomy (p혻<혻0.0001), congenital diaphragmatic hernia (p혻<혻0.0002), chest wall reconstruction (p혻<혻0.0001), cholecystectomy (p혻=혻<0.0001), gastrostomy (p혻<혻0.0001), nissen fundoplication (p혻<혻0.0001) oophorectomy (p혻<혻0.0001), pyloromyotomy (p혻<혻0.0001) and splenectomy (p혻=혻0.0006). After grouping the years into early (2000-2003), middle (2004-2006) and late (2007-2009) categories, the hospital with a dedicated MIS surgeon had a significantly higher rate of increase in use of laparoscopic surgery between the early and middle years for four procedures: diaphragmatic hernia repair (p혻=혻0.003), chest wall reconstruction (p혻=혻0.0086), cholecystectomy (0.0083) and endorectal pull-through (p혻=혻0.025).   CONCLUSION The presence of a dedicated minimally invasive pediatric surgeon led to a significant change in surgical practice with an overall trend of increasing MIS several years in advance of a hospital that did not have a dedicated MIS surgeon. This has implications for resident training in academic medical centers and potential patient care outcomes.
OBJECTIVE To determine the rate of groin node dissection (GND) for invasive vulvar carcinoma in a population-based cohort, and the patient, tumor, or health system factors associated with having this procedure.   METHODS This retrospective population-based cohort includes all cases of invasive squamous cell carcinoma identified in the provincial cancer registry from 1998 to 2007. Chart abstraction was completed for all clinical and pathologic factors. Descriptive analyses with chi-squared tests were used for comparing proportions between patient groups. Multivariable logistic regression analysis was implemented to determine factors associated with having a GND.   RESULTS Data was collected for 1109 patients; 1038 patients were included in this analysis. 647 (62%) had a GND as part of primary management of their vulvar cancer, while 391 (38%) did not. When those with depth of invasion 1mm and no GND were removed, the GND rate increased to 68%. Reasons for no GND included age, obesity, advanced disease, or comorbidities. Factors significantly associated with omission of GND were increasing age (OR 0.98, CI 0.97-0.99), severe comorbidities (OR 0.57, CI 0.42-0.78), lower income quintile (OR 0.71, CI 0.54-0.95), and surgeon type (non-gynecologic oncologist vs gynecologic oncologist) (OR 0.43, CI 0.22-0.85), whereas depth of invasion >1mm was significantly associated with having a GND (OR 2.75, CI 2.08-3.62).   CONCLUSION This population-based cohort demonstrates 32% of invasive vulvar cancer patients did not have a GND at initial management. Vulvar cancer patients should be evaluated by clinicians with expertise in this rare disease to ensure that a GND is completed when feasible.
OBJECTIVE The study purpose is to evaluate the Surgical Council on Resident Education (SCORE) Curriculum regarding American Board of Surgery Qualifying Examination (ABS QE) outcomes. The goal is to perform effect size analyses, sensitivity analyses, and sample size analyses with opportunity cost estimates required to favor the SCORE Curriculum subscription regarding ABS QE outcomes.   METHODS Published data were used to construct 2 횞 2 matrices regarding ABS QE outcome (pass/fail) and SCORE subscription status (subscriber/nonsubscriber). Post hoc analyses of effect sizes and sample sizes, with opportunity cost estimates, were performed to evaluate ABS QE outcomes favoring SCORE subscription (2-tailed and 1-tailed tests) using an 慣 = 0.05.   RESULTS The absolute risk increase of SCORE subscription on ABS QE outcome was 1.6% (number needed to treat = 63). Sensitivity analyses showed that a pass rate difference of 4.9% to 7.5% was required to favor SCORE subscription (all p < 0.05). Sample size analyses required an 8- to 18-fold increase to favor SCORE subscription to achieve statistical significance with an opportunity cost of $6.0 to $13.5 million ($30,000-$67,000/program), not adjusting for inflation.   CONCLUSIONS The number needed to treat and pass rate differences required to favor SCORE subscription are large. The opportunity costs of SCORE subscription are substantial. Residency programs with more limited resources should determine if the subscription costs are financially sound.
INTRODUCTION Scientific studies on injury characteristics are rather common in professional football but not in amateur football despite the thousands of amateur football tournaments taking place worldwide each year. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the preparation and injury patterns of players of two different football skill levels who participated in an international amateur football tournament.   METHODS In a prospective cohort study, an international amateur football tournament of medical doctors in 2011 was analysed with regard to training and warm-up preparation, the level of football played before the tournament and injury data during the tournament by means of standardised injury definitions and data samples for football.   RESULTS Amateur players of registered football clubs had higher training exposure before the tournament (p < 0.001) than recreational players and had more frequently performed warm-up programmes (p < 0.001). Recreational football players showed a significantly higher overall injury incidence (p < 0.002), particularly of overuse injuries (p < 0.001), during the tournament than amateur players. In almost 75% of players in both groups, the body region most affected by injuries and complaints was the lower extremities. Orthopaedic and trauma surgeons had the lowest overall injury incidence and anaesthetists the highest (p = 0.049) during the tournament.   CONCLUSION For the first time, this study presents detailed information on the injury incidence and injury patterns of an amateur football tournament. Less-trained recreational players sustained significantly more injuries than better-trained amateur players, probably due to the lack of sufficient preparation before the tournament. Preventive strategies against overuse and traumatic injuries of recreational football players should start with regular training and warm-up programmes in preparation for a tournament.
The question that when a surgeon should retire has been the subject under discussion since long. In the present era, medical education, knowledge, training, and technology are evolving at a rapid pace. At the other end, age causes decline in physical and cognitive performance. So the older a surgeon is, the more likely that he is remote from his initial education and training in his specialty. Research also proves that the senior surgeons are hesitant to plan for their retirement. So far there is no definitive study matching surgical outcomes to surgeons' age. The author believes that work done in related domains can provide a better understanding of physician aging and cognition issues, and thus can suggest more effective strategies towards continuous professional development and lifelong learning in medicine.
BACKGROUND Given more emphasis on training primary care physicians for underserved areas, we hypothesized that students self-identifying as 'disadvantaged' would be less likely to pursue surgical training.   METHODS We retrospectively reviewed medical school data on students graduating 2005-2014. Students were stratified into 'disadvantaged' and 'nondisadvantaged'. Data were recorded on age, grade point average, Medical College Admission Test (MCAT), gender, surgery grade, United States Medical Licensing Examination step 1 score, and residency match into a surgical field. A comparison of the proportion of students matching into a surgical field was assessed with chi-square test. Multivariate logistic regression was performed to assess the factors that predict the choice of general surgery versus another surgical field.   RESULTS Of the 1140 students who graduated during the study period, 219 (19.2%) students self-identified as 'disadvantaged'. Of all students, 158 (13.9%) chose a surgical field. The disadvantaged group was older at entry and had lower grade point average and total MCAT scores. Twenty-seven (12.3%) disadvantaged students chose a surgical residency versus 130 (14.1%) nondisadvantaged students (P혻=혻0.56). On multivariate logistic regression, female gender (odds ratio [OR] = 3.9; 95% confidence interval = [1.9-8.3], P혻<혻0.01), disadvantaged status (OR = 2.8 [1.1-7.1], P혻=혻0.03), and United States Medical Licensing Examination step 1 score혻Β227 (OR = 0.43 [0.21-0.88], P혻=혻0.02) were significantly associated with matching into general surgery versus another surgical specialty.   DISCUSSION Although the disadvantaged cohort was older and had lower undergraduate GPAs and MCAT scores, the proportion of disadvantaged students matching into a surgical residency was not statistically different. To address the future shortage of general surgeons in underserved areas, increasing enrollment of 'disadvantaged' students may alleviate the 'surgical desert'.
BACKGROUND The instructions to authors are the only means of communication between researchers and the editorial standards of a scientific journal. One of the mandatory items to be contained therein is about the ethical part, to prevent new research to carry out abuses with the enrolled on the research are published and stimulated.   AIM To verify the ethical questions on the guidelines of Brazilian surgical journals Method: Thirteen selected journals were divided into two groups: general surgery (n=3), and surgical specialty (n=10). The instructions to authors were analyzed by the quote of ethical requirements based on a specific research protocol, ranging from zero to six points.   RESULTS The average score of the general surgery group was similar than that of the surgical specialty group (3.66짹0.57 vs 3.30짹1.15, p=0.6154). When each ethical requirement was compared between the groups, there was no significant difference between the ethical requirements (p<0.05).   CONCLUSION There was respect for most ethical questions evaluated, with no difference between the journals of general or specialty surgery.
BACKGROUND The management and outcomes of patients receiving nonelective surgical treatment of acute complicated diverticulitis by surgeon specialization have received little attention.   METHODS A retrospective review was performed of consecutive patients with acute complicated diverticulitis who underwent surgery from 2006 to 2013. Patients were analyzed based on surgeon specialty: general surgery (GS) or colorectal surgery (CRS).   RESULTS One hundred fifteen patients met criteria for study; 62 patients in the CRS and 53 in the GS group. GS were more likely to perform Hartmann's procedures or primary anastomosis and less likely to perform primary anastomosis with diverting ileostomy than CRS. There were no differences between groups for any outcome measures on univariate analysis. CRS patients had shorter operative time (P = .001) and length of stay (P  .001) for stoma reversal procedures. Surgeon specialization was not associated with morbidity, readmission, or length of stay on multivariate analysis.   CONCLUSIONS Although surgical management differed significantly between CRS and GS, comparable outcomes were observed at the index hospital admission.
BACKGROUND The Early Specialization Program (ESP) in surgery was designed by the American Board of Surgery, the American Board of Thoracic Surgery, and the Residency Review Committees for Surgery and Thoracic Surgery to allow surgical trainees dual certification in general surgery (GS) and either vascular surgery (VS) or cardiothoracic surgery (CTS) after 6 to 7 years of training. After more than 10 years' experience, this analysis was undertaken to evaluate efficacy.   STUDY DESIGN American Board of Surgery and American Board of Thoracic Surgery records of VS and CTS ESP trainees were queried to evaluate qualifying exam and certifying exam performance. Case logs were examined and compared with contemporaneous non-ESP trainees. Opinions of programs directors of GS, VS, and CTS and ESP participants were solicited via survey.   RESULTS Twenty-six CTS ESP residents have completed training at 10 programs and 16 VS ESP at 6 programs. First-time pass rates on American Board of Surgery qualifying and certifying exams were superior to time-matched peers; greater success in specialty specific examinations was also found. Trainees met required case minimums for GS despite shortened time in GS. By survey, 85% of programs directors endorsed satisfaction with ESP, and 90% endorsed graduate readiness for independent practice. Early Specialization Program participants report increased mentorship and independence, greater competence for practice, and overall satisfaction with ESP.   CONCLUSIONS Individuals in ESP programs in VS and CTS were successful in passing GS and specialty exams and achieving required operative cases, despite an accelerated training track. Programs directors and participants report satisfaction with the training and confidence that ESP graduates are prepared for independent practice. This documented success supports ESP training in any surgical subspecialty, including comprehensive GS.
BACKGROUND The objectives of this study were to assemble an international perspective on (1) current, and (2) ideal technical performance assessment methods, and (3) barriers to their adoption during: selection, in-training, and certification.   METHODS A questionnaire was distributed to international educational directorates.   RESULTS Eight of 10 jurisdictions responded. Currently, aptitude tests or simulated tasks are used during selection, observational rating scales during training and nothing is used at certification. Ideally, innate ability should be determined during selection, in-training evaluation reports, and global rating scales used during training, whereas global and procedure-specific rating scales used at the time of certification. Barriers include lack of predictive evidence for use in selection, financial limitations during training, and a combination with respect to certification.   CONCLUSIONS Identifying current and ideal evaluation methods will prove beneficial to ensure the best assessments of technical performance are chosen for each training time point.
IMPORTANCE The number of practicing pediatric surgeons has increased rapidly in the past 4 decades, without a significant increase in the incidence of rare diseases specific to the field. Maintenance of competency in the index procedures for these rare diseases is essential to the future of the profession.   OBJECTIVE To describe the demographic characteristics and operative experiences of practicing pediatric surgeons using Pediatric Surgery Board recertification case log data.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS We performed a retrospective review of 5 years of pediatric surgery certification renewal applications submitted to the Pediatric Surgery Board between 2009 and 2013. A surgeon's location was defined by population as urban, large rural, small rural, or isolated. Case log data were examined to determine case volume by category and type of procedures. Surgeons were categorized according to recertification at 10, 20, or 30 years.   MAIN OUTCOME AND MEASURE Number of index cases during the preceding year.   RESULTS Of 308 recertifying pediatric surgeons, 249 (80.8%) were men, and 143 (46.4%) were 46 to 55 years of age. Most of the pediatric surgeons (304 of 308 [98.7%]) practiced in urban areas (ie, with a population >50000 people). All recertifying applicants were clinically active. An appendectomy was the most commonly performed procedure (with a mean [SD] number of 49.3 [35.0] procedures per year), nonoperative trauma management came in second (with 20.0 [33.0] procedures per year), and inguinal hernia repair for children younger than 6 months of age came in third (with 14.7 [13.8] procedures per year). In 6 of 10 'rare' pediatric surgery cases, the mean number of procedures was less than 2. Of 308 surgeons, 193 (62.7%) had performed a neuroblastoma resection, 170 (55.2%) a kidney tumor resection, and 123 (39.9%) an operation to treat biliary atresia or choledochal cyst in the preceding year. Laparoscopy was more frequently performed in the 10-year recertification group for Nissen fundoplication, appendectomy, splenectomy, gastrostomy/jejunostomy, orchidopexy, and cholecystectomy (P<.05) but not lung resection (P=.70). It was more frequently used by surgeons recertifying in the 10-year group (used in 11375 of 14456 procedures [78.7%]) than by surgeons recertifying in the 20-year (used in 6214 of 8712 procedures [71.3%]) or 30-year group (used in 2022 of 3805 procedures [53.1%]).   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Practicing pediatric surgeons receive limited exposure to index cases after training. With regard to maintaining competency in an era in which health care outcomes have become increasingly important, these results are concerning.
PURPOSE Trends towards surgical sub-specialisation to improve patient-outcomes are well-documented and largely supported by evidence. However few studies have examined whether this benefit exists within adult-cardiac surgery. To answer whether sub-specialisation within adult-cardiac surgery improves patient-outcomes, this study assessed the relationship between procedure-specific and total-cardiac surgeon-volume and mortality and morbidity in cardiac-valve and coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) surgery.   METHODS Data came from the Australian and New Zealand Society of Cardiac and Thoracic Surgeons (ANZSCTS) registry from 2001 to 2010 and included 23 hospitals, 109 surgeons, 20,619 patients with isolated-CABG-surgery and 11,536 patients with a valve-procedure. Hierarchical logistic regression using generalised estimating equations was used to analyse outcomes. Measures included operative-mortality and occurrence of a complication (deep sternal wound infection, new stroke, acute kidney injury).   RESULTS Crude operative mortality (and complication rates) were 1.7% (4.9%) and 4% (11%) in the isolated-CABG and valve-surgical populations respectively. A greater procedure-specific surgeon volume was associated with reduced mortality and complication rates in valve-surgery but not isolated-CABG. There was a 33% decrease in odds of dying for every additional 50 valve procedures performed [OR 0.67, p=0.003]. Conversely, greater total-cardiac surgical volume for individual surgeons did not result in improved outcomes, for both isolated-CABG and valve populations.   CONCLUSIONS Our finding of an association between increased valve-specific surgeon volumes with improved valve-surgery outcomes, and absence of an association between these outcomes and annual total-cardiac surgical experience supports the case for sub-specialisation specifically within the field of valve surgery.
BACKGROUND Females are less attracted than males to surgical specialties, which may be due to differences in the acquisition of skills. The aim of this study was to systematically review studies that investigate gender differences in the acquisition of surgical skills.   METHODS We performed a comprehensive database search using relevant search phrases and MeSH terms. We included studies that investigated the role of gender in the acquisition of surgical skills.   RESULTS Our search yielded 247 studies, 18 of which were found to be eligible and were therefore included. These studies included a total of 2,106 study participants. The studies were qualitatively synthesized in five categories (studies on medical students, studies on both medical students and residents, studies on residents, studies on gender differences in needed physical strength, and studies on other gender-related training conditions). Male medical students tended to outperform females, while no gender differences were found among residents. Gaming experience and interest in surgery correlated with better acquisition of surgical skills, regardless of gender. Although initial levels of surgical abilities seemed lower among females, one-on-one training and instructor feedback worked better on females and were able to help the acquisition of surgical skills at a level that negated measurable gender differences. Female physicians possess the required physical strength for surgical procedures, but may face gender-related challenges in daily clinical practice.   CONCLUSION Medical students are a heterogeneous group with a range of interests and experiences, while surgical residents are more homogeneous perhaps due to selection bias. Gender-related differences are more pronounced among medical students. Future surgical curricula should consider tailoring personalized programs that accommodate more mentoring and one-on-one training for female physicians while giving male physicians more practice opportunities in order to increase the output of surgical training and acquisition of surgical skills.
The Hugh Greenwood Lecture acknowledges the extremely generous support from Mr Greenwood that has enabled the BAPS to establish funds to advance paediatric surgical training in developing countries. In this Inaugural Lecture, Dr. Sekabira, the first Hugh Greenwood Fellow, describes the influence that this has had on his career and reviews the state of paediatric surgery in Uganda.
OBJECTIVE This study aims to develop a set of quality indicators for the measurement of the quality of surgical care for neonates with surgical disorders.   METHODS An expert panel of the Netherlands Association of Pediatric Surgeons developed internal (clinical) indicators for neonatal surgery. This included the selection of appropriate care processes, a review of the scientific literature, consensus meetings to establish national guidelines, selection of clinical indicators with independent external evaluation, the setup of a national database, and a pilot study in one of the hospitals to evaluate the defined quality indicators in clinical practice.   RESULTS Seven neonatal surgical care processes were selected. Clinical guidelines to evaluate the care processes were established in six of seven disorders and were based on consensus agreement, which was reached in 81 to 97% of in total 220 relevant items. The expert panel selected a set of 24 indicators to estimate the quality of neonatal surgical care, of which 12 were outcome indicators and 12 process indicators.   CONCLUSION The development of quality indicators is an important step toward monitoring and, if necessary, improving the quality of neonatal surgical care. Internal or clinical indicators guarantee that the results are only disclosed to the participating center itself and are therefore no threat to individual doctors.
BACKGROUND Human factors including stress, repetition, burnout and fatigue are associated with possible sources of error. Objective structured clinical examinations (OSCEs), where examiners concentrate for long periods, would benefit from a human factors approach to see whether these factors affect consistency of examiner behaviour, attitude and marking. Little has been published for OSCEs, in part due to the lack of a validated tool for collecting data in this setting.   METHODS A 46-item questionnaire was developed based on the Human Factors Analysis and Classification System (HFACS) domains and completed by examiners in the Intercollegiate Membership of the Royal College of Surgeons (MRCS) examination. To refine the questionnaire, an initial analysis focused on response patterns of each item. Cronbach's 慣 was used to assess internal consistency, and a factor analysis was performed to uncover different domains emerging from the data.   RESULTS A total of 108 examiners completed the questionnaire (90쨌0 per cent response rate). The questionnaire, refined to 38 items based on an initial analysis of response patterns, showed good reliability for internal consistency (Cronbach's 慣=0쨌76) and test-retest reliability (r=0쨌85, n=48, P<0쨌001). Four factors had a close themed resemblance to the original HFACS domains, but were associated with different items, suggesting that the four human-factor domains might be linked to different behaviours and attitudes in an examination setting. Analyses according to sex, professional background and experience highlighted additional stress levels in examiners from one of the surgical Royal Colleges (P <0쨌001), matching evidence from the situation in that College at the time of this study.   CONCLUSION The recognition and further investigation of human factors in OSCEs is needed to improve examiner experience and behaviour in order to influence delivery, candidate experience and quality assurance of these examinations.
BACKGROUND The implementation of mandated restrictions in resident duty hours has led to increased handoffs for patient care and thus more opportunities for errors during transitions of care. Much of the current handoff literature is empiric, with experts recommending the study of handoffs within an established framework.   METHODS A prospective, single-institution study was conducted evaluating the process of handoffs for the care of surgical patients in the context of a published communication framework. Evaluation tools for the source, receiver, and observer were developed to identify factors impacting the handoff process, and inter-rater correlations were assessed. Data analysis was generated with Pearson/Spearman correlations and multivariate linear regressions. Rater consistency was assessed with intraclass correlations.   RESULTS A total of 126 handoffs were observed. Evaluations were completed by 1 observer (N혻=혻126), 2 observers (N혻=혻23), 2 receivers (N혻=혻39), 1 receiver (N혻=혻82), and 1 source (N혻=혻78). An average (짹standard deviation) service handoff included 9.2 (짹4.6) patients, lasted 9.1 (짹5.4) minutes, and had 4.7 (짹3.4) distractions recorded by the observer. The source and receiver(s) recognized distractions in >67% of handoffs, with the most common internal and external distractions being fatigue (60% of handoffs) and extraneous staff entering/exiting the room (31%), respectively. Teams with more patients spent less time per individual patient handoff (r혻=혻-0.298; P혻=혻.001). Statistically significant intraclass correlations (P혻ㅒ.05) were moderate between observers (r혻Β0.4) but not receivers (r혻<혻0.4). Intraclass correlation values between different types of raters were inconsistent (P혻>혻.05). The quality of the handoff process was affected negatively by presence of active electronic devices (棺혻=혻-0.565; P혻=혻.005), number of teaching discussions (棺혻=혻-0.417; P혻=혻.048), and a sense of hierarchy between source and receiver (棺혻=혻-0.309; P혻=혻.002).   CONCLUSION Studying the handoff process within an established framework highlights factors that impair communication. Internal and external distractions are common during handoffs and along with the working relationship between the source and receiver impact the quality of the handoff process. This information allows further study and targeted interventions of the handoff process to improve overall effectiveness and patient safety of the handoff.
INTRODUCTION Robotic technology has transformed both practice and education in many adult surgical specialties; no standardized training guidelines in pediatric surgery currently exist. The purpose of our study was to assess the prevalence of robotic procedures and extent of robotic surgery education in US pediatric surgery fellowships.   MATERIALS AND METHODS A deidentified survey measured utilization of the robot, perception on the utility of the robot, and its incorporation in training among the program directors of Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) pediatric surgery fellowships in the United States.   RESULTS Forty-one of the 47 fellowship programs (87%) responded to the survey. While 67% of respondents indicated the presence of a robot in their facility, only 26% reported its utilizing in their surgical practice. Among programs not utilizing the robot, most common reasons provided were lack of clear supportive evidence, increased intraoperative time, and incompatibility of instrument size to pediatric patients. While 58% of program directors believe that there is a future role for robotic surgery in children, only 18% indicated that robotic training should play a part in pediatric surgery education. Consequently, while over 66% of survey respondents received training in robot-assisted surgical technique, only 29% of fellows receive robot-assisted training during their fellowship.   CONCLUSIONS A majority of fellowships have access to a robot, but few utilize the technology in their current practice or as part of training. Further investigation is required into both the technology's potential benefits in the pediatric population and its role in pediatric surgery training.
PURPOSE Although surgical residency training is a structured, regulated system for surgical skill acquisition, after residency or fellowship, no good method exists for practicing surgeons to learn new, developing techniques. Because 1-2-day simulation courses are probably inadequate for teaching a new technique and because it is often unrealistic for a practicing surgeon to leave his or her practice for an extended period of time, surgical telementoring may be a solution by allowing an expert to support a trained surgeon through the learning curve of a new procedure while overcoming geographic distance. In the past we have presented 6 cases of transcontinental telementoring with pediatric surgeons in the United States. We have since expanded the concept to trans-Atlantic telementoring and performed 2 cases with pediatric surgeons in France.   MATERIALS AND METHODS The two telementors and one of the two telementees had previously met through a professional society but had never operated together before this experience. The first procedure was an interval laparoscopic appendectomy to test the process. The second procedure was a thoracoscopic total thymectomy. The technology consisted of the VisitOR1짰 telementoring robot (Karl Storz GmbH & Co. KG, Tuttlingen, Germany).   RESULTS Both procedures were completed successfully with high satisfaction from both the telementors and telementees. Latency was low, and there was no loss of connection. The telestration and laser pointer features of the robot facilitated the telementoring experience. Challenges included lack of a prior surgical relationship between the mentees and mentors that limited the depth of advice but did not impair the quality of the surgery, as well as poor audio quality that was overcome using headsets.   CONCLUSIONS From this experience, several challenges were identified and addressed. Telementoring may be an effective means of improving adoption of new surgical techniques, ultimately improving patient care.
BACKGROUND The declining popularity of surgical specialties among North American medical students has been attributed partially to limited early exposure and minimal involvement of surgeons in preclerkship education; in response, the Surgical Exploration and Discovery (SEAD) program was developed at the University of Toronto in 2012. SEAD is a 2-week curriculum that provides first-year medical students comprehensive exposure to surgical specialties through operating room observerships, simulation workshops, and career discussions. This study is the first to examine implementation of the SEAD program at another site.   METHODS This prospective cohort study evaluated the effectiveness of the SEAD program in improving surgical knowledge and facilitating career decision making when compared with a control group. In all, 18 students participated in the SEAD program, and 18 students from the same class read only the program's instructional manual; both the groups completed multiple-choice tests and questionnaires at baseline and at completion to assess knowledge acquisition and career-related learning.   RESULTS Both the groups significantly improved their surgical knowledge, but there was no difference between groups. SEAD participants made significantly greater progress in refining their career decisions when compared with the control group; all but one SEAD participant either gained interest in or ruled out a surgical specialty as a potential career choice compared with only 10 of the participants reading the manual only.   CONCLUSIONS The SEAD program provides a meaningful opportunity for medical students to explore surgical careers during preclerkship and to make better-informed career decisions. This expansion demonstrates that the program can be successfully reproduced at another institution.
BACKGROUND The impact of early medical school mentorship in students' clerkships performance and career selection is unknown.   METHODS We administered Introduction to Surgery, a resident-directed, semester-long, preclinical elective to junior medical students who answered a Likert-type survey after residency application. Elective participants (EPs) were compared with nonparticipant applicants (EAs), medical school class (MS), and national match outcomes (USA).   RESULTS All 18 EPs (7 M1's, 11 M2's) completed the elective and survey. EP reported more confidence and improved surgical skills, especially attributed to resident mentorship (F(13,237) = 2.3, P = 8*10(-3)). EP 'honored' the clerkship more than MS (P = .05); 55.6% of EP, 37.5% of EA, and 27.7% of MS chose surgical fields, yielding a relative risk of 2.0 for EP vs MS (95% confidence interval: 1.3 to 3.2, P = 4*10(-3)). EP 'strongly agree' with future mentorship programs (4.6/5), and 1 EP reported the course to be the 'main reason' for applying to general surgery.   CONCLUSIONS Introduction to Surgery provides a model for a multifaceted junior medical student mentorship program, which has the potential to retain interested students for surgical career selection.
BACKGROUND Medical student interest in neurosurgery is decreasing and resident attrition is trending upwards in favor of more lifestyle-friendly specialties that receive greater exposure during medical school. The University of Toronto began offering an annual two week comprehensive, focused surgical experience (Surgical Exploration and Discovery (SEAD) program) to 20 first year medical students increasing exposure to surgical careers. This study determines how SEAD affects students' views of a career in neurosurgery.   METHODS Surveys were administered to 38 SEAD participants over two program cycles. Information was obtained regarding demographics, impacts of SEAD, and factors affecting career decision making. Subgroup analyses assessed for factors predicting pre- and post-intervention interest in neurosurgery.   RESULTS Ninety-seven percent (n=37) of students completed the survey. Before SEAD, 25% were interested in neurosurgery but this decreased to 10% post-SEAD (p=0.001). However, post-SEAD interest increased from 10% to 38% if lifestyle factors were theoretically controlled across surgical specialties (p<0.005). A majority (81%) felt SEAD improved their understanding of neurosurgery, 62.2% felt that exposure to other surgical specialties reduced their interest in neurosurgery, and 21% felt SEAD increased their interest in neurosurgery. Nineteen percent intended to explore neurosurgery further with observerships and one student planned to organize neurosurgical research.   CONCLUSIONS This surgical exposure intervention increased understanding about neurosurgery and reduced overall interest in neurosurgery as a career. However, those remaining interested were motivated to plan further neurosurgical clinical experiences. The SEAD program may, therefore, aid in early selection of students motivated to satisfy the demands of a neurosurgical career.
BACKGROUND Lighting in operating rooms must ensure conditions of visual comfort, wellbeing and safety when procedures are being carried out, so as to preserve혻 the health of both workers and patients.   OBJECTIVES In this study we attempted to develop a methodology for specifically assessing the risk for surgeons of exposure to blue light, simulating the surgeon's real working conditions. Visual comfort was also assessed by measuring maintained illuminance (Em) and the luminance levels in the visual task area within the operating field.   METHODS Blue light exposure was measured by an OCEAN OPTICS-QE65000 spectroradiometer and a LSI-Lastem model Z-Lux radiometer, while for lighting measurements, a videophotometer and luxmeter were used.   RESULTS Results show that the surgeons were exposed to blue light values lower than the limit of effective radiance LB= 100 W m-2 sr-1 foreseen by European Directive 2006/25/EC. For visual comfort, significant differences in illumination were observed between surrounding areas and the visual task areas, with very high luminance values measured in most of the observation points.   CONCLUSIONS In this case the measured values confirm that the workers were daily exposed to unsuitable luminance contrasts that can cause eyestrain. Given such results and considering the task analysis, we proposed to extend health surveillance to workers performing activities such as precision surgery for prolonged periods.
OBJECTIVE The purpose of this study is to determine an optimal training curriculum using a robotic virtual simulator (RVS) that enables unexperienced trainees to perform a complex task in a hands-on setting.   PATIENTS AND METHODS This study was conducted in 2 phases. In the RVS phase, 43 participants sequentially completed 12 exercises consistent with all primary exercises in the EndoWrist manipulation and advanced needle-driving category, until the overall score reached more than 80% by repeated practice. In the hands-on phase using a robotic surgical system, 10 randomly selected trainees performed 8 sutures once, simulating urethrovesical anastomosis, and the console time was recorded.   RESULTS The median total time and total attempts for the RVS phase was 195.2 minutes and 54 times, respectively. The trainees were divided by median total time, and times to accomplish each RVS exercise were then compared between the early- and the late-completion groups; among 12 exercises trained, 6 exercises (prolonged course) requiring significantly more time in the late-completion group were identified. The prolonged course occupied 88.18% of the total time and 77.61% of the total attempts. For participants the in hands-on phase, a multiple linear regression model showed that the time to accomplish the prolonged course was a single independent predictor of the console time (R(2) = 0.524, B = 0.05; p = 0.018).   CONCLUSION After establishment of a high standard cutoff score, the time spent for the prolonged course showed a significant association with console time in hands-on training simulating urethrovesical anastomosis, implying educational efficacy of training involving time-consuming exercise in performance of a complex task.
BACKGROUND Women have accounted for over 30% of new medical students since 1995 in Japan. Establishing support systems for women surgeons to continue their work is a major issue in Japan. Mentorship can be one of the most effective means to help women surgeons to continue their work. The purpose of this study was to clarify the current status of mentorship among Japanese women surgeons and to discuss the role of mentors for women surgeons.   METHODS Invitation letters were sent to all female members of the Japan Association of Women Surgeons in April 2011. An 84-item questionnaire survey was sent to those who agreed to participate in this study via the internet.   RESULTS Fifty-five surgeons participated in this study, a response rate of 48.7%. Sixty-seven percent of respondents found it difficult to continue in their job; 85% thought mentorship was necessary for women surgeons to progress in their careers; and 84% reported that they already had a mentor. Respondents thought that a mentor helped them to advance their clinical career, to stay in their job, and to provide moral support. However, mentors appeared to be less useful in helping them to advance their research career, to network, to increase their status, and to achieve a work-life balance.   CONCLUSIONS This study revealed areas where mentors appeared to be less helpful to women surgeons. The survey gave an indication of how to help improve and develop the career and personal life of women surgeons in Japan.
AIM This study assessed whether photographs of burns on patients with dark-skin types could be used for accurate diagnosing and if the accuracy was affected by physicians' clinical background or case characteristics.   METHOD 21 South-African cases (Fitzpatrick grades 4-6) of varying complexity were photographed using a camera phone and uploaded on a web-survey. Respondents were asked to assess wound depth (3 categories) and size (in percentage). A sample of 24 burn surgeons and emergency physicians was recruited in South-Africa, USA and Sweden. Measurements of accuracy (using percentage agreement with bedside diagnosis), inter- (n=24), and intra-rater (n=6) reliability (using percentage agreement and kappa) were computed for all cases aggregated and by case characteristic.   RESULTS Overall diagnostic accuracy was 67.5% and 66.0% for burn size and depth, respectively. It was comparable between burn surgeons and emergency physicians and between countries of practice. However, the standard deviations were smaller, showing higher similarities in diagnoses for burn surgeons and South-African clinicians compared to emergency physicians and clinicians from other countries. Case characteristics (child/adult, simple/complex wound, partial/full thickness) affected the results for burn size but not for depth. Inter- and intra-rater reliability for burn depth was 55% and 77%.   CONCLUSION Size and depth of burns on patients with dark-skin types could be assessed at least as well using photographs as at bedside with 67.5% and 66.0% average accuracy rates. Case characteristics significantly affected the accuracy for burn size, but medical specialty and country of practice seldom did in a statistically significant manner.
IMPORTANCE The growing complexity of medical and surgical care has resulted in increasing subspecialization. To date, data have been lacking regarding the degree to which subspecialization has affected the provision of strabismus surgical services. This gap is important to address given the implications for health care human resources planning and educational programs.   OBJECTIVE To investigate the effect of subspecialization on the provision of strabismus surgery services.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Population-based study in Ontario, Canada, which provides universal health care coverage to the provincial population. Participants included all ophthalmologists in Ontario and the provincial population of approximately 12 million persons from January 1, 1994, through December 31, 2011.   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Surgeon-level rates of strabismus surgery.   RESULTS From January 1, 1994, through December 31, 2011, the percentage of ophthalmologists who provided strabismus surgery decreased from 37.7% (156 of 414 surgeons) to 12.5% (54 of 432 surgeons; difference, 25.2%; 95% CI, 19.3%-30.9%; P <.001), a 66.8% decline from the baseline level. Of ophthalmologists who provided strabismus surgery during the same period, the mean number of strabismus procedures per surgeon grew from 16.2 to 55.3 per year, a 241.4% increase (95% CI, 20.4%-461.6%; P <.001). These trends occurred at all career stages.   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Strabismus surgery has evolved into a subspecialized field of ophthalmology during the past 15 years. These findings may have important implications for health care professionals and health care system leaders, including the need to account for subspecialization in physician human resources decisions to ensure access to quality strabismus surgery across regions. Furthermore, residency education programs and their governing organizations may need to account for strabismus subspecialization when designing curriculum and accreditation requirements.
Radiooncological therapies are an integral part of the multimodal oncological treatment concepts in general and abdominal surgery. These include therapeutic approaches with a curative intention such as the neoadjuvant (pre-operative) radiotherapy of locoregionally advanced and/or N+ oesophageal and rectal cancer, definitive combined chemoradiotherapy of locally advanced, unresectable oesophageal cancer or oesophageal tumour lesions of the upper third, definitive radiotherapy of anal cancer (sphincter sparing) and pre- or post-operative radiotherapy of soft tissue sarcoma on the one hand. A yT0 stage achieved as characteristic of a curative effect by radiation in oesophageal and rectal cancer (omitting subsequent surgical intervention, naturally under clinical and imaging-based controls within short-term follow-up intervals) can be considered as a very interesting set-up with regard to its reasonable integration in daily clinical practice, which needs to be further and critically discussed. By integrating radiotherapy in interdisciplinary therapy concepts, improved tumour control and survival rates with clinically acceptable toxicity can be achieved. On the other hand, non-invasive, locally ablative radiooncological therapies such as extracranial stereotactic body radiotherapy constitute an effective and feasible treatment method for liver metastases in oligometastatic colorectal cancer or other tumour entities according to the decisions by the institutional tumour board, offering high local tumour control rates which can be part of multistep, multimodal procedures with curative intention. This review aims at providing an overview for the general and abdominal surgeon, outlining relevant radiooncological treatment aspects in the multimodal cancer therapy with a focus on the treatment of rectal, oesophageal and anal cancer as well as soft tissue sarcoma and hepatic metastases in oligometastatic colorectal cancer.
OBJECTIVES Since 1996, 1 to 4 annual training missions have been carried out to train Haitian otorhinolaryngology (ENT) and cervicofacial surgery residents by the association Liens Otorhinolaryngology Ayti (LOA). Until 1996, ENT was practiced and taught by ophthalmologists. The aim of this article is to describe the contributions and limitations of LOA in training of Haitian resident physicians and the creation of the ENT specialty in Haiti.   DESIGN Retrospective analysis of clinical consultation and surgical interventions records and didactics carried out during missions from 1996 through 2014.   PARTICIPANTS A total of 37 missions were made during the 19-year period in which 29 senior ENT specialists participated, with an average of 3.37 missions per physician.   RESULTS A total of 10,300 consultations and 173 surgical procedures were made jointly by a senior LOA physician and a Haitian resident physician. Totally 16 Haitian ENT residents were trained, 81% of whom are still practicing in Haiti. ENT became a surgical specialty in 2001 after the nomination of a Haitian ENT specialist as Assistant Director of the ENT-Ophthalmology service. The latter benefitted from dual training by LOA in Haiti and abroad.   CONCLUSION The Haitian population experiences significant difficulties with access to medical care owing to very low number of resident medical personnel. LOA's work has contributed over 19 years to the training of ENT physicians now practicing in Haiti and to the creation of a local ENT specialty.
Surgical subspecialties were just emerging at the turn of the 20th Century, before this time, general surgeons had to adjust their operative skills to address disorders throughout the body. Sir William Arbuthnot Lane was a British surgeon, whose restless mind led him to wander throughout the field of general surgery and beyond. Although controversial, he advanced in the repair of cleft lip and palate, introduced the 'no touch' operative technique, internal fixation of fractures, and is credited as the first surgeon to perform open massage of the heart. During The Great War, he established the British Plastic Surgery unit at Sidcup and delegated the care of facial and jaw injuries to young Major Harold Gillies. Lane later founded The New Health Society, an organization that stimulated the natural food movement. Sadly, in his latter years Lane's thinking drifted further away from with the times and his professional credibility waned. Nevertheless, Lane's variegated life is of sufficient interest to deserve reassessment.
BACKGROUND Appendicitis is the most common operative disease in children, yet few data exist to support specialized care for childhood appendicitis. We hypothesized that children treated with specialized care are younger, have more severe disease, and experience equal or better outcomes.   METHODS Texas Blue Cross/Blue Shield claims data were reviewed for all children <18 years who underwent appendectomy for acute appendicitis from 2008 to 2012. Primary outcomes included adverse events, 30-day readmissions, and hospital duration of stay. (2), Fisher exact test, Student t test, and multivariate regression were performed.   RESULTS Of the 3,886 pediatric appendectomies, 894 (23%) were performed by pediatric surgeons and 1,558 (40%) were performed in children's hospitals. Children treated by pediatric surgeons were younger, had more severe disease, underwent fewer computed tomography (CT) examinations, and were hospitalized longer (all P < .05). Similarly, children treated in children's hospitals were younger, underwent fewer CTs, were more likely to undergo laparoscopic appendectomy, and were hospitalized longer (all P < .05). Specialized care did not predict adverse events or 30-day readmissions; however, specialized care was associated with longer duration of stay (P < .01).   CONCLUSION Privately insured children in Texas treated for appendicitis by pediatric surgeons or in children's hospitals were younger, had more severe disease, and were hospitalized longer but were less likely to undergo preoperative CT.
INTRODUCTION Review of surgical complications in traditional morbidity and mortality (M&M) rounds remains an important mechanism to identify and discuss quality-of-care issues. This process relies on case selection by providers; therefore, complications identified for review may differ from those captured in comprehensive quality programs such as the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS NSQIP). Additionally, although the ACS NSQIP captures robust data on complications in surgical wards, without strategies to disseminate this information to staff and improve practice, minimal change may result. The objective of this study was to compare complications identified by the ACS NSQIP with those captured in M&M conferences at a large Canadian academic hospital.   METHODS Retrospective medical record reviews of all patients admitted to the general surgery unit from March 2012 to March 2013 were reviewed. Number and types of complications were recorded for cases that were both submitted and reviewed in M&M rounds and those cases that were submitted but not reviewed. These complications were compared with those extracted from our local ACS NSQIP database.   RESULTS A total of 1348 general surgical procedures were performed. The ACS NSQIP captured complications in 143 patients compared with 58 patients identified for review in M&M rounds. Both the methods identified similar proportions of major and minor complications (ACS NSQIP 52% major, 48% minor; M&M 58% major, 42% minor). More postoperative deaths were entered into the ACS NSQIP (12) than in M&M conferences (8 reviewed and 2 submitted). The ACS NSQIP identified higher proportions of surgical site infections and readmissions. However, M&M conferences captured additional complications in patients who did not undergo surgery and identified potential quality issues in patients who did not ultimately experience an adverse outcome.   CONCLUSIONS M&M rounds and the ACS NSQIP provide important and potentially complementary data on surgical quality. Incorporating the ACS NSQIP outcomes data into traditional M&M conferences may help to optimize quality improvement efforts.
OBJECTIVE To assess the attitudes of residents and program directors (PDs) involved in flexible training to gauge satisfaction with this training paradigm and elicit limitations.   DESIGN Anonymous surveys were sent to residents and PDs in participant programs. Respondents were asked to rate responses on a 5-point Likert scale (1 = strongly disagree and 5 = strongly agree).   SETTING A total of 9 residency programs that are collaborating to prospectively study the effect of flexible tracks on resident performance and outcome.   PARTICIPANTS A total of 138 residents who were in clinical years 4 and 5 and 10 PDs.   RESULTS Of the 138 possible residents, 100 responded to the resident survey (72.5% response rate). Among resident respondents, 33% were participating in a flexible track option. The most frequently listed specialties of focus were cardiothoracic surgery (19%), vascular surgery (13%), acute care surgery (11%), colorectal surgery (8%), surgical oncology (7%), and pediatric surgery (7%). Participants in flexible tracks tended to strongly agree that their career would be enhanced by flexible rotations; interestingly, of those not in flexible tracks, most tended to also agree that flexible rotations would enhance their future careers. Flexible track participants report receiving greater autonomy on flexible rotations and believe they would be better prepared for fellowship and career. They express overall very high satisfaction with the flexible experience. Limitations expressed by residents (in flexible tracks or not) include uncertainty for how this paradigm serves those interested in comprehensive general surgery, concern about scheduling difficulties, and some displeasure in missing high-volume general surgery rotations in lieu of specialty-focused rotations. The PD survey was completed by 8 of 9 PDs for a response rate of 89%. All the respondents agreed or strongly agreed that careers of residents are enhanced by flexible rotations and that important operative and clinical experiences are gained. Overall, 87.5% of PD respondents agreed or strongly agreed that those in flexible tracks have greater opportunities for mentorship in their chosen field. PDs also expressed high levels of satisfaction with flexible rotations. Limitations include concerns that the flexibility option presents scheduling difficulties and does not go far enough in reforming postgraduate education.   CONCLUSIONS This survey of 9 residency programs participating in flexible tracks indicates satisfaction with this training option. The role of comprehensive general surgery as a training end point and scheduling difficulties remain as major challenges. Outcomes of graduates in these tracks and control peers are being prospectively evaluated.
PURPOSE The value of onsite interviews for the pediatric surgery match remains undefined despite substantial cost to applicants. This study assesses the impact of onsite interviews on the rank order lists submitted to the match by pediatric surgery residency training program directors (PDs).   METHODS PDs were asked prospectively to evaluate pediatric surgery residency candidates based solely on their ERAS application and generate a 'pre-interview rank list.' Interviews were then held based on the usual practice of each program. PDs then submitted de-identified pre-interview and final rank lists. The impact of the interview process upon rank list movement of candidates was assessed.   RESULTS Of 44 programs, 16 (36%) provided data for analysis. Onsite interviews resulted in candidates moving a mean of 5.2 짹 1.2 rank positions, whereas candidates ranked in the first 5 positions moved an average of 4 짹 2 places, 81% of the initial top-ranked candidates moved out of this position, and 36% of top 10 candidates moved out of the top 10.   CONCLUSIONS Onsite interviews are high-stakes events which substantially affect the final rank order list in the pediatric surgery match. Programs should take these data into account when determining the number of interview invitations.
BACKGROUND Perioperative blood recovery (PBR) is an important component of patient blood management. We analyzed our experience providing PBR for community hospitals to determine procedure types and clinical variables associated with efficacy and cost-effectiveness.   STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS PBR cases (>25,000) from January 2008 through December 2012 were analyzed. For each procedure type, the median number of returned red blood cell units (rRBCs) and ratio of cases with at least 1 to less than 1 rRBC unit were calculated. Clinical predictors of rRBC were identified by linear and logistic regression.   RESULTS The overall median rRBC was 0.29 units despite median estimated blood loss (EBL) of 350 mL. Only three of 31 common procedure types had 1:<1 rRBC ratios near to or higher than 1. In nine of 31 common procedure types, at least 50% of cases had no rRBC return. Linear regression demonstrated significant association of rRBCs with increased EBL, longer operative duration, surgeon, PBR device type (autoLog vs. CS5), and decreasing age. EBL, autoLog use, high surgeon case volume, vascular procedures, and emergent versus elective procedures associated with higher odds of at least 1 rRBC.   CONCLUSION Discrepancy between rRBC and EBL and high percentages of cases with no rRBC suggests that PBR technique and case selection need optimization. Identification of procedure types and variables associated with PBR efficacy (1 rRBC) should improve utilization of PBR. Association of autoLog use with higher rRBC warrants further investigation.
BACKGROUND A clear command structure ensures quality patient care despite overwhelmed resources during a mass casualty incident (MCI). The American College of Surgeons has stated that surgeons should strive to occupy these leadership roles.   OBJECTIVE We sought to identify whether surgeons, as compared to emergency physicians, are sufficiently prepared to assume command in the event of a mass disaster.   METHODS We surveyed hospital-affiliated surgeons and emergency physicians to assess their knowledge of MCI response principles and to gauge opinions regarding who should be in charge during a disaster.   RESULTS One hundred and forty-nine (58%) surveys were completed, 78 by surgeons and 71 by emergency physicians. Both groups demonstrated a critical lack of knowledge regarding fundamental principles and key logistical components of preparedness and MCI response. Surgeons as a group were even less prepared than emergency physicians. Of those surgeons who had reviewed their hospital's disaster plan, half (50%) still did not know where to report for an MCI activation. Nonetheless, both groups believed they had sufficient training and both asserted they ought to occupy command positions during a disaster scenario.   CONCLUSIONS Errors in disaster triage have been known to increase mortality as well as the monetary cost of disaster response. Funding exists to improve hospital preparedness, but surgeons are lagging behind emergency physicians in taking advantage of these opportunities. Overall, it is imperative that physicians improve their understanding of the MCI response protocols they will be tasked to implement should disaster strike.
BACKGROUND/PURPOSE Identifying quality in pediatric surgery can be difficult given the low frequency of postoperative complications. We compared postoperative events following pediatric surgical procedures at a single institution identified by ACS-NSQIP Pediatric (ACS NSQIP-P) methodology and AHRQ Pediatric Quality Indicators (AHRQ PDIs), an administrative tool.   METHODS AHRQ PDI algorithms were run on inpatient hospital discharge abstracts for 1257 children in the 2010 to 2013 ACS NSQIP-P at our institution. Four events-pulmonary complications, postoperative sepsis, wound dehiscence and bleeding-were matched between ACS NSQIP-P and AHRQ PDI.   RESULTS Events were identified by ACS NSQIP-P in 7.9% of children and by AHRQ PDI in 8.0%. The four matched events were identified in 5.5% and 3.7%, respectively. Specificities of AHRQ PDI ranged from 97% to 100% and sensitivities from 0 to 2%. The largest discrepancy was in bleeding, where AHRQ PDI captured 1 of the 54 events identified by ACS NSQIP-P. None of the 41 pulmonary, sepsis, and wound dehiscence events identified by AHRQ PDI were clinically relevant according to ACS NSQIP-P.   CONCLUSIONS Adverse events following pediatric surgery are infrequent; thus, additional measures of quality to supplement postoperative adverse events are needed. AHRQ PDIs are inadequate for assessing quality in pediatric surgery.
INTRODUCTION We hypothesized that a proficiency-based curriculum administered early in the fourth year to senior medical students (MS4) would achieve outcomes comparable to a similar program administered during surgical internship.   METHODS MS4 (n = 18) entering any surgical specialty enrolled in a proficiency-based skills curriculum at the beginning of the fourth year that included suturing/knot-tying, on-call problems, laparoscopic, and other skills (urinary catheter, sterile prep/drape, IV placement, informed consent, electrosurgical use). Assessment was at 4-12 weeks after training by a modified Objective Structured Assessment of Technical Skills (OSATS). Suturing and knot tying tasks were assessed by time and OSATS technical proficiency (TP) scores (1 [novice], 3 [proficient], 5 [expert]). Outcomes were compared with PGY-1 residents who received similar training at the beginning of internship and assessment 4-12 weeks later. Data are presented as mean values 짹 standard deviation; statistical significance was assessed by Student's t test.   RESULTS Fifteen of 18 MS4 (83%) reached proficiency on all 15 tasks, and 2 others were proficient on all but 1 laparoscopic task. Compared with PGY-1s, MS4 were significantly faster for 3 of 5 suturing and tying tasks and total task time (547 짹 63 vs 637 짹 127 s; P < .05). Mean TP scores were similar for both groups (MS4, 3.4 짹 0.5 vs PGY-1, 3.1 짹 .57; P = NS). MS4 OSATS scores were higher for IV placement, informed consent, and urinary catheter placement, but lower for prep and drape and for management of on-call problems.   CONCLUSION MS4 who participate in a proficiency-based curriculum taught early in the fourth year are able to meet proficiency targets in a high percentage of cases. This approach should better prepare MS4 for surgical internship.
BACKGROUND The National Surgical Quality Improvement Program-Pediatrics (NSQIP-P) collects data for institutional quality benchmarking of surgery performed on children using a sampling algorithm. The Pediatric and Infant Case Log and Outcomes (PICaLO) is a database of all general and thoracic pediatric surgery (GTPS) procedures performed at our institution with the attendant complications. This study compared postsurgical occurrences in a NSQIP-P sample with all postoperative occurrences at a single institution to test the hypothesis that a sample of higher risk procedures represents the actual event rate for all higher risk procedures.   STUDY DESIGN The definitions of postoperative occurrences used in PICaLO are derived from NSQIP-P but tracked past 30 days postoperatively and include additional occurrences (ie, anastomotic leak). The number and types of occurrences and number of deaths from PICaLO and NSQIP-P databases were compared for procedures specific to pediatric GTPS procedures during 2012 to 2013. A chi-square test evaluated the proportion of occurrences and deaths in PICaLO to NSQIP-P.   RESULTS The NSQIP-P sampled 37.7% of eligible GTS procedures recorded in PICaLO during the study period. The proportion of cases with 1 or more occurrences was significantly higher in the NSQIP-P dataset when compared with all cases in PICaLO (p < 0.0001). When NSQIP-P and PICaLO were compared based on specific CPT codes, NSQIP-P still had a higher event rate (p = 0.004).   CONCLUSIONS In focused comparisons, the data demonstrate that the NSQIP-P sampling algorithm successfully identifies CPT codes with higher postoperative event rates than the overall cohort of pediatric GTPS patients, but may not be reflective of the total experience for procedures with those CPT codes.
: The US health care system is struggling with rising costs, poor outcomes, waste, and inefficiency. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act represents a substantial effort to improve access and emphasizes value-based care. Value in health care has been defined as health outcomes for the patient per dollar spent. However, given the opacity of health outcomes and cost, the identification and quantification of patient-centered value is problematic. These problems are magnified by highly technical, specialized care (eg, neurosurgery). This is further complicated by potentially competing interests of the 5 major stakeholders in health care: patients, doctors, payers, hospitals, and manufacturers. These stakeholders are watching with great interest as health care in the United States moves toward a value-based system. Market principles can be harnessed to drive costs down, improve outcomes, and improve overall value to patients. However, there are many caveats to a market-based, value-driven system that must be identified and addressed. Many excellent neurosurgical efforts are already underway to nudge health care toward increased efficiency, decreased costs, and improved quality. Patient-centered shared value can provide a philosophical mooring for the development of health care policies that utilize market principles without losing sight of the ultimate goals of health care, to care for patients.
BACKGROUND Sleep loss in attending physicians has an unclear effect on patient outcomes. In this study, we examined the effect of medical care provided by physicians after midnight on the outcomes of their scheduled elective procedures performed during the day.   METHODS We conducted a population-based, retrospective, matched-cohort study in Ontario, Canada. Patients undergoing 1 of 12 elective daytime procedures performed by a physician who had treated patients from midnight to 7 a.m. were matched in a 1:1 ratio to patients undergoing the same procedure by the same physician on a day when the physician had not treated patients after midnight. Outcomes included death, readmission, complications, length of stay, and procedure duration. We used generalized estimating equations to compare outcomes between patient groups.   RESULTS We included 38,978 patients, treated by 1448 physicians, in the study, of whom 40.6% were treated at an academic center. We found no significant difference in the primary outcome (death, readmission, or complication) between patients who underwent a daytime procedure performed by a physician who had provided patient care after midnight and those who underwent a procedure performed by a physician who had not treated patients after midnight (22.2% and 22.4%, respectively; P=0.66; adjusted odds ratio, 0.99; 95% confidence interval, 0.95 to 1.03). We also found no significant difference in outcomes after stratification for academic versus nonacademic center, physician's age, or type of procedure. Secondary analyses revealed no significant difference between patient groups in length of stay or procedure duration.   CONCLUSIONS Overall, the risks of adverse outcomes of elective daytime procedures were similar whether or not the physician had provided medical services the previous night. (Funded by the University of Toronto Dean's Fund and others.).
Paediatric surgeons remain paediatric clinicians who have the unique skill set to treat children with surgical problems that may require operative intervention. Many of the advances in paediatric surgical care have occurred outside the operating theatre and have involved significant input from medical, nursing and allied health colleagues. The establishment of neonatal intensive care units, especially those focusing on the care of surgical infants, has greatly enhanced the survival rates and long-term outcomes of those infants with major congenital anomalies requiring surgical repair. Educational initiatives such as the advanced trauma life support and emergency management of severe burns courses have facilitated improved understanding and clinical care. Paediatric surgeons have led with the non-operative management of solid organ injury following blunt abdominal trauma. Nano-crystalline burn wound dressings have enabled a reduced frequency of painful dressing changes in addition to effective antimicrobial efficacy and enhanced burn wound healing. Burns care has evolved so that many children may now be treated almost exclusively in an ambulatory care setting or as day case-only patients, with novel technologies allowing accurate prediction of burn would outcome and planning of elective operative intervention to achieve burn wound closure.
PURPOSE Pediatric surgical education and workforce have changed significantly in the past decade. To document trends in the operative experiences of junior pediatric surgeons, we examined case logs submitted by applicants for membership to APSA.   METHODS Case logs for 164 APSA membership applicants from 2006 to 2013 were reviewed. Total case volume, categories, and specific operations were analyzed. Negative binomial regression assessed for significant associations between the number of cases and the application year, presence of a pediatric surgery training program, region of the country, and years since fellowship completion.   RESULTS Overall case numbers decreased initially after 2006/2007, but have remained stable since. Decreasing trends were seen in a number of specific cases/categories. The number of newborn cases did not change. Significant variations in operative experience were identified depending upon region, presence of a pediatric surgery training program, and years since fellowship completion. Median reported value for several important cases was 4 per year, and for some was zero.   CONCLUSION These data describing the experience of young pediatric surgeons supplement recent observations regarding pediatric surgery fellows and general surgery residents. The limited exposure of surgeons to particularly rare conditions appears to be an unresolved problem. This information will be useful in developing future workforce proposals.
Salzbergian\solz-brg휆-n\ adjective of, relating to, or following the teachings of Arnold Salzberg. Noun one who embodies all that Arnold Salzberg taught about humanity. Noun one who has obtained his or her HB degree. Webster's dictionary would probably define 'Salzbergian' as one who trained under Arnold Salzberg and exhibits the same great character traits, mentoring ability, and surgical skills. These might be the words that are used, but many times words cannot do justice to describing something so special. Arnold Salzberg was many things to many different people, 'father figure,' 'wonderful advisor and resource,' 'ultimate mentor,' 'humanitarian,' but when he was asked how he wanted to be remembered, he simply smiled and replied, 'Icon쫡hat would be nice.' Never at a loss for words or humor and forever with an open door to his office, home, and heart, Dr. Salzberg embodied what so many medical students, residents, and attendings have been striving for, the ideal combination of physician and human being.
INTRODUCTION Doctors in the United Kingdom are expected to choose a broad career path after approximately 16 months of finishing medical school. We aim to investigate how much surgical exposure foundation-year (FY)1 doctors would have by the end of their first year after finishing medical school and whether this is sufficient to make an informed decision on a career in surgery.   METHOD Cross-sectional survey via a 10-part questionnaire sent to 1341 FY1 doctors at the end of their first clinical year across secondary and tertiary hospitals within 9 foundation schools in the United Kingdom.   RESULTS A total of 389 FY1 doctors responded. More than half (52.2%) of the FY1 doctors were unable to attend theater more than 5 times during their rotation. Length of surgical rotation, surgical specialty, type of hospital, and prior interest in surgery had no significant effect on theater attendance (p > 0.05). More than half (50.9%) of the FY1 doctors did not feel like they had had sufficient experience to make an informed decision about a career in surgery.   DISCUSSION Poor theater attendance is common among FY1 doctors, which may lead to ill-informed specialty career decisions. The Modernising Medical Careers program and European Working Time Directive are likely contributing to this lack of exposure. Protected and logged theater sessions for all FY1 doctors could ensure sufficient exposure. New initiatives need to be employed to increase surgical exposure among FY1 doctors to ensure that specialty choices in their second FY are informed ones. The proposed changes to the United Kingdom's junior doctor's training in the 'Shape of Training' report may mean that changes in exposure in the early years are even more pertinent.
OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS The American College of Surgeons Thyroid and Parathyroid Ultrasound Skills-Oriented Course (TPUSC) was designed to teach surgeons how to interpret and perform office-based head and neck ultrasound (HNUS). The objective of this study was to survey attendees of the TPUSC to evaluate the usefulness of the course, to track surgeon performed HNUS practice patterns, and to help identify potential roadblocks to incorporation of HNUS into a surgeon's practice.   STUDY DESIGN Cross-sectional survey.   METHODS A Web-based survey was sent to 952 surgeons who completed the TPUSC between 2010 and 2014. Questions included surgeon specialty, practice type, Likert scale rating of the TPUSC, competency with different HNUS procedures, and current HNUS practice patterns.   RESULTS The response rate was 24%. On a scale from 1 (not useful) to 5 (extremely valuable), the mean course usefulness rating was 4.2. Educational goals were met for 194 (92%) surgeons, and 162 (77%) surgeons reported performing HNUS in their practice. Of 48 surgeons not performing HNUS, 24 (50%) attributed insufficient time in their clinic schedule, and 21 (44%) attributed high equipment costs.   CONCLUSIONS The TPUSC is a valuable educational experience for surgeons seeking to gain proficiency in HNUS. The majority of TPUSC graduates gain competency with at least one type of HNUS procedure following the course.   LEVEL OF EVIDENCE NA Laryngoscope, 127:1950-1958, 2017.
BACKGROUND Adult surgical patient safety literature is plentiful; however, there is a disproportionate paucity of published safety work in the children's surgical literature. We sought to systematically evaluate the nature and quality of patient safety evidence pertaining to pediatric surgical practice.   METHODS Systematic search of MEDLINE and EMBASE databases and gray literature identified 1399 articles. Data pertaining to demographics, methodology, interventions, and outcomes were extracted. Study quality was assessed utilizing formal criteria.   RESULTS 20 studies were included. 14 (70%) comprised peer-reviewed articles. 18 (90%) were published in the last 4years. 13 (65%) described a novel intervention, and 7 (35%) described a modification of an existing intervention. Median patient sample size was 79 (29-1210). A large number (n=55) and variety (n=35) of measures were employed to evaluate the effect of interventions on patient safety. 15 (75%) studies utilized a checklist tool as a component of their intervention. 9 (45%) studies [comprising handoff tools (n=7); checklists (n=1); and multidimensional quality improvement initiatives (n=1)] reported a positive effect on patient safety. Quality assessment was undertaken on 14 studies. Quantitative studies had significantly higher quality scores than qualitative studies (61 [0-89] vs 44 [11-78], p=0.03).   CONCLUSIONS Pediatric surgical patient safety evidence is in its early stages. Successful interventions that we identified were typically handoff tools. There now ought to be an onus on pediatric surgeons to develop and apply bespoke pediatric surgical safety interventions and generate an evidence base to parallel the adult literature.   LEVEL OF EVIDENCE Level IV, Case series with no comparison group.
The Queensland Telepaediatric Service (QTS) was established in the year 2000 to deliver a broad range of paediatric specialist health services from the Royal Children's Hospital (RCH) in Brisbane, mainly via videoconference. During a 13-year study period, the QTS facilitated 18,949 video consultations, comprising Mental Health (42%), Medicine (30%), Surgery (21%) and Other (8%). We reviewed the surgical services provided through the QTS. There were 3880 video consultations with a paediatric surgeon. Most of these (91%) used fixed videoconferencing units, 8% were delivered via mobile units (robots) and 1% were delivered using Skype. Surgical consultations were provided by telehealth to 106 sites: 89% in Queensland and the rest to other states. The main surgical specialties were burns (50%), ear, nose and throat (19%), general surgery (21%), orthopaedics (9%) and vascular anomalies (2%). During a 12-month audit period, there were 224 teleconsultations in general surgery; the most common reason for referral was for undescended testes (17%). During the study period there was a significant growth in all surgical telehealth activity: linear regression showed an annual increase of 17 cases per year (P<0.02). In the last four years of the study, there was a substantial growth in the general surgical component, although there was also a reduction in the burns component. Telehealth has potential for other specialist consultations which require periodic assessment and review.
BACKGROUND Henry Barrett worked as a general surgeon in New Plymouth, New Zealand between 1939 and 1978. In this time, he made significant contributions to the development of paediatric surgery in New Zealand.   METHODS Henry Barrett's archive and personal papers remain in the possession of his family. These described his pioneering operations first hand.   RESULTS In an 18-month period from 1947 to 1948, in New Plymouth small provincial hospital, Henry Barrett successfully completed the first primary repair of an oesophageal atresia with distal tracheoesophageal fistula in the Southern Hemisphere and the second and third successful ligations of patent ductus arteriosus in New Zealand. All three patients survived into adulthood.   CONCLUSION Henry Barrett pioneered the undertaking of two complex paediatric surgical procedures in New Zealand. These operations were performed without specialist paediatric support at a time when procedures for these conditions, particularly patent ductus arteriosus, were viewed with suspicion.
The authors studied trends and patterns in the literature of research labeled as clinical (i.e., having the word 'clinical' in their title) in the period between 1991 and 2010. The main findings are: 1. The growth of the literature under study was somewhat stronger than that of the overall medical literature. 2. The dominance of the USA is strong but is challenged by some of the most rapidly developing countries (particularly in the Far-East region: China, Korea) in total production, and by the developed European countries in highly cited publications. The eminence of Italy is remarkable. 3. In comparing the medical fields, the most striking tendencies are the increase of oncology and the attenuation of internal medicine. Surgery is steadily growing in size but decreasing in its citation influence. 4. Word frequency studies support the ever growing weight of oncology and also of genetics. 5. Beyond the thematic changes, word frequency studies also reveal a substantial change in attitude: in the period under study more and more effort was made on emphasizing the usefulness, efficiency and risks of the results in contrast with the more descriptive, investigative approach of the past. The role of therapy is growing, the role of diagnostics is decreasing. The knowledge of these trends and patterns may orient health and science policy makers to cope appropriately with the ever changing world of clinical research.
PURPOSE Pediatric endoscopic surgery requires special surgical skills because of the small working space and tissue fragility. This article presents a video-based skill assessment method for endoscopic suturing using a pediatric chest model.   MATERIALS AND METHODS A commercial suture pad was placed in a rapid-prototyped pediatric chest model of a 1-year-old patient to simulate the thoracoscopic repair of esophageal atresia type C. Twenty-eight pediatric surgeons (9 experts, 9 intermediates, and 10 trainees) performed an endoscopic intracorporeal suturing and knot-tying task both in the pediatric chest model and in a box trainer. The tasks were video-recorded and rated by two blinded observers using the 29-point checklist method and a suturing errors score sheet method. The task completion time and the number of needle manipulations were measured.   RESULTS The expert group showed better performance than the intermediate and trainee groups in the pediatric chest model, and the differences were larger than those in the box trainer. Significant differences between the expert and the trainee groups were observed in the items related to safety such as the skills for keeping the needle in view at all times. Significant differences between the expert and intermediate groups were observed in the items related to task quality and efficiency such as the smoothness of knot tying and the number of needle manipulations.   CONCLUSIONS Video-based skill assessment of endoscopic suturing using the pediatric chest model and a box trainer distinguished pediatric endoscopic surgeons according to their clinical experience, and pediatric-specific skills were identified.
Telemedicine is a broad term and has recently become a household term in the medical field. However, there are many interpretations as to what the term 'telemedicine' means. There are many facets to telemedicine and here we describe all of the elements of telemedicine, a glossary of terms, and how they relate to pediatric surgery.
With decreased resident experience during training and the constant evolution of new surgical techniques, surgeons are at risk for complications during the early part of the learning curve. Mentorship by experienced surgeons may mitigate these complications. The availability of such advanced telepresence technology makes it logical that this will be used as part of the model to proctor, mentor, and train practicing surgeons. Here, we review the current state of telementoring.
Tele-education has the potential to facilitate rapid sharing and dissemination of current research and knowledge among pediatric surgeons around the world. Classically, the exchange of surgical research occurred via national surgical conferences, articles published in peer-reviewed journals, and textbooks. The advent of Web 2.0 and the rapid pace of technologic advancement have allowed knowledge, education, and research to be exchanged online. Virtual symposiums act as online conferences where participants present and debate new research and surgical techniques in real-time web meetings. Resource libraries allow up-to-date information to be archived and viewed at the user's convenience, bypassing the need to wait long periods for paper publications. Tele-education allows pediatric surgeons to connect and share ideas around the world, while saving time and money.
Social media has changed the landscape of online interaction for all doctors including pediatric surgeons. Of course the public including our patients and potential new patients having immediate access to these sites through mobile devices and iPads has contributed immensely to this phenomenon. Nonetheless, it seems that we are all rushing to get in front of our target audience and to engage in a relationship with them in a cost-effective fashion. This article will discuss the role of the Internet and media and how you can use this technology to attract new pediatric patients to your practice.
OBJECTIVES The hidden curriculum may be framed as the culture, beliefs and behaviours of a community that are passed to students outside formal course offerings. Medical careers involve diverse specialties, each with a different culture, yet how medical students negotiate these cultures has not been fully explored. Using surgery as a case study, we aimed to establish, first, whether a specialty-specific hidden curriculum existed for students, and second, how students encountered and negotiated surgical career options.   METHODS Using a constructivist grounded theory approach, we explored students' thoughts, beliefs and experiences regarding career decisions and surgery. An exploratory questionnaire informed the discussion schedule for semi-structured individual interviews. Medical students were purposively sampled by year group, gender and career intentions in surgery. Data collection and analysis were iterative: analysis followed each interview and guided the adaptation of our discussion schedule to further our evolving model.   RESULTS Students held a clear sense of a hidden curriculum in surgery. To successfully negotiate a surgical career, students perceived that they must first build networks because careers information flows through relationships. They subsequently enacted what they learned by accruing the accolades ('ticking the boxes') and appropriating the dispositions ('walking the talk') of 'future surgeons'. This allowed them to identify themselves and to be identified by others as 'future surgeons' and to gain access to participation in the surgical world. Participation then enabled further network building and access to careers information in a positive feedback loop. For some, negotiating the hidden curriculum was more difficult, which, for them, rendered a surgical career unattractive or unattainable.   CONCLUSIONS Students perceive a clear surgery-specific hidden curriculum. Using a constructivist grounded theory approach, we have developed a model of how students encounter, uncover and enact this hidden curriculum to succeed. Drawing on concepts of Bourdieu, we discuss unequal access to the hidden curriculum, which was found to exclude many from the possibility of a surgical career.
BACKGROUND Minimally invasive surgery might greatly benefit from the Information and Communications Technologies. The objective of this work is to determine the better approach to include those technologies, in particular an e-Learning platform, into an in-person training course.   METHODS An online survey was sent to all participants in any of the laparoscopic training courses at Jes첬s Us처n Minimally Invasive Surgery Centre. This survey included questions regarding new technologies used for training. Once all data were gathered, a descriptive analysis was performed.   RESULTS 382 questionnaires were sent of which 102 were correctly received back. This means a response rate equal to 30%. Current theoretical training means are watching surgical videos (85-83.3%) and assisting to in-person training courses (77-75.5%). Participants rated as useful the use of new technologies for training (4.1 짹 0.9) and they would mainly use it both before and after assisting to an in-person training course (80-78.4%).   CONCLUSIONS It is proposed a methodology that provides participants with didactic resources based on surgical videos, both before and after assisting to an in-person training course. Through the application of this methodology, an improvement and reduction of the time that surgeons expend in training is aimed.
BACKGROUND Minimally invasive surgery implementation requires a regulated and orderly learning process.   METHODS Jes첬s Us처n Minimally Invasive Surgery Centre promotes a pyramid training model structured into four levels: training of basic and advanced skills in physical simulator (level 1), training of anatomical protocols and advanced skills with animal models (level 2) training advanced procedural skills with tele-surgical applications (level 3), and training in the operating room (level 4). Training provided at levels 1 and 2 is described and evaluated.   RESULTS 4284 participants have been trained in laparoscopy at our institution. 95.5% surgeons: 49% gastroenterologists, 30% urologists, and 14% gynecologist (14%). 77% of celebrated courses consisted of 20 hours training (8 at level 1 and 12 at level 2). 94.37% of participants considered pyramid model as highly suitable, scoring 9.5 on a scale 1-10 for the model and for the simulation quality. 82.7% perceived the improvement in their laparoscopic skills and 99.56% recommend this training program to other surgeons.   DISCUSSION There are no unified criteria between different training programs but most of them measure laparoscopic skills based on time of execution, quality or mistakes of the exercise, and the student satisfaction test.   CONCLUSION The pyramid training model lead to the acquisition of necessary laparoscopic skills to perform safely advanced minimally invasive techniques.
OBJECTIVE To achieve consensus on a multidisciplinary treatment guideline for carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS).   DESIGN Delphi consensus strategy.   SETTING Systematic reviews reporting on the effectiveness of surgical and nonsurgical interventions were conducted and used as an evidence-based starting point for a European Delphi consensus strategy.   PARTICIPANTS In total, 35 experts (hand surgeons selected from the Federation of European Societies for Surgery of the Hand, hand therapists selected from the European Federation of Societies for Hand Therapy, physical medicine and rehabilitation physicians) participated in the Delphi consensus strategy.   INTERVENTIONS Not applicable.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Each Delphi round consisted of a questionnaire, analysis, and feedback report.   RESULTS After 3 Delphi rounds, consensus was achieved on the description, symptoms, and diagnosis of CTS. The experts agreed that patients with CTS should always be instructed, and instructions combined with splinting, corticosteroid injection, corticosteroid injections plus splinting, and surgery are suitable treatments for CTS. Relevant details for the use of instructions, splinting, corticosteroid injections, and surgery were described. Main factors for selecting one of the aforementioned treatment options were identified as follows: severity and duration of the disorder and previous treatments received. A relation between the severity/duration and choice of therapy was found by the experts and reported in the guideline.   CONCLUSIONS This multidisciplinary treatment guideline may help physicians and allied health care professionals to provide patients with CTS with the most effective and efficient treatment available.
BACKGROUND Ratios of women graduating from the only US military medical school and entering surgical internships were reviewed and compared with national trends.   METHODS Data were obtained from the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences graduation announcements from 2002 to 2012.   RESULTS There were 1,771 graduates from 2002 to 2012, with 508 female (29%) and 1,263 male (71%) graduates. Female graduates increased over time (21% to 39%; P = .014). Female general surgery interns increased from 3.9% to 39% (P = .025). Female overall surgical subspecialty interns increased from 20% in 2002 to 36% in 2012 (P = .046). Women were represented well in obstetrics (57%), urology (44%), and otolaryngology (31%), but not in neurosurgery, orthopedics, and ophthalmology (0% to 20%).   CONCLUSIONS The sex disparity between military and civilian medical students occurs before entry. Once in medical school, women are just as likely to enter general surgery or surgical subspecialty as their male counterparts. Increased ratio of women in the class is unlikely to lead to a shortfall except in specific subspecialties.
BACKGROUND The Medicare sustainable growth rate (SGR) formula is used to control Medicare spending on physician services. Under the current SGR formula, physicians face an almost 24% cut to the Medicare fee schedule on April 1, 2015. The US House Way & Means and Energy & Commerce Committees and the Senate Finance Committee released jointly proposed legislation to permanently repeal the SGR, and transition Medicare physician payment to a value-based payment method. This review summarizes the key components of the proposed legislation, and discusses some of the political challenges ahead.   DATA SOURCES House Committees on Energy & Commerce and Ways & Means, and the Senate Committee on Finance staff write-ups.   CONCLUSIONS Physician Medicare reimbursement will move from a volume-based model to a value-based model over the next decade. Surgeons should remain engaged with the political process to ensure repeal of the SGR.
INTRODUCTION This study describes variability of treatment for differentiated thyroid cancer among thyroid surgeons, in the context of changing patterns of thyroid surgery in the UK.   METHODS Hospital Episodes Statistics on thyroid operations between 1997 and 2012 were obtained for England. A survey comprising six scenarios of varying 'risk' was developed. Patient/tumour information was provided, with five risk stratified or non-risk stratified treatment options. The survey was distributed to UK surgical associations. Respondent demographics were categorised and responses analysed by assigned risk stratified preference.   RESULTS From 1997 to 2012, the Hospital Episode Statistics data indicated there was a 55% increase in the annual number of thyroidectomies with a fivefold increase in otolaryngology procedures and a tripling of cancer operations. Of the surgical association members surveyed, 264 respondents reported a thyroid surgery practice. Management varied across and within the six scenarios, and was not related consistently to the level of risk. Associations were demonstrated between overall risk stratified preference and higher volume practice (>25 thyroidectomies per year) (p=0.011), fewer years of consultant practice (p=0.017) and multidisciplinary team participation (p=0.037). Logistic regression revealed fewer years of consultant practice (odds ratio [OR]: 0.96/year in practice, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.922-0.997, p=0.036) and caseload of >25/year (OR 1.92, 95% CI: 1.044-3.522, p=0.036) as independent predictors of risk stratified preference.   CONCLUSIONS There is a substantial contribution to thyroid surgery in the UK by otolaryngology surgeons. Adjusting management according to established case-based risk stratification is not widely applied. Higher caseload was associated with a preference for management tailored to individual risk.
Skull base tumors occur at an interface of multiple surgical specialties, which need to work in tandem to treat these cases. The number of estimated new cancer cases in India is approximately 1 million in a year, and skull base tumors are estimated to be 3500 a year. We present an overview of our experience of operating 550 patients with these tumors during a period of 15 years in a cross-section of society with varying economic background and with our limited resources. We have illustrated 5 patients who have been operated on by us. We have proposed how we could further our cause in treating these patients in our scenario.
Craniofacial surgery, in the strictest sense, is the surgery of structures above and behind the maxilla. Craniofacial surgery is not new to India and has been around for more than 4 decades now since the 1970s. Keeping in mind the promotion of the specialty in India, an Indian Craniofacial Foundation was launched in the year 2012 at the Annual Meeting of the Association of Plastic Surgeons of India. To develop a craniofacial center in India, the primary requirement is a source of funding. Several craniofacial centers, which are already running successfully in India, have amply demonstrated that this can be done in several ways. We would like to discuss here the 2 models of craniofacial service delivery and training that the authors have seen and experienced firsthand.
Specialization influences the way that we deliver surgical care and has a direct impact on surgeons, healthcare systems and patients. Abdominal wall hernia repairs are among the most commonly performed surgical procedures worldwide, and over 20 million prosthetic meshes are inserted annually. Worldwide outcomes from groin hernia repair, as reflected by 5-year recurrence rates, range from 1 to 4혻%. However, the results for incisional hernia repair are at least ten times worse, with worldwide recurrence rates of about 25혻% and upwards. This editorial aims to debate the argument for and against hernia subspecialists and provide a framework for implementing specialist hernia services.
This paper explores the impact of disclosures of bias on advisees. Disclosure-informing advisees of a potential bias-is a popular solution for managing conflicts of interest. Prior research has focused almost exclusively on disclosures of financial conflicts of interest but little is known about how disclosures of other types of biases could impact advisees. In medicine, for example, physicians often recommend the treatment they specialize in; e.g., surgeons are more likely to recommend surgery than nonsurgeons. In recognition of this bias, some physicians inform patients about their specialty bias when other similarly effective treatment options exist. Using field data (recorded transcripts of surgeon-patient consultations) from Veteran Affairs hospitals and a randomized controlled laboratory experiment, we examine and find that disclosures of specialty bias increase patients' trust and their likelihood of choosing a treatment in accordance with the physicians' specialty. Physicians in the field also increased the strength of their recommendation to have the specialty treatment when they disclosed their bias or discussed the opportunity for the patient to seek a consultation with a physician from another specialty. These findings have important implications for handling advisor bias, shared advisor-advisee decision-making, and disclosure policies.
BACKGROUND In-house surgical education and practical training of surgical skills are inhomogeneous in German hospitals and vary greatly in terms of teaching content and forms. The present survey provides an overview of the currently practiced surgical education and practical training of surgical skills in German hospitals.   MATERIAL AND METHODS An online survey was performed among members of the 'Deutsche Gesellschaft f체r Allgemein- und Viszeralchirurgie' (DGAV). It was a prospective data collection, divided into the following two groups: 'junior physicians/consultants/senior physicians' and 'chief physicians'. The questionnaire consisted of 30 questions concerning the frequency, type and quality of in-house surgical education and practical training of surgical skills in German hospitals.   RESULTS A total of 325 physicians participated in the survey, including 61 chief physicians and 264 junior physicians/consultants/senior physicians. Amongst the participants, 107 (33%) worked in university hospitals, 57 (18%) in maximum care clinics, 73 (22%) in major regional hospitals with specialised medical services and 88 (27%) in basic care facilities. 199 (75.4%) of the junior physicians/consultants/senior physicians reported a regular, 57 (21.6%) an irregular and 8 (3.0%) no formal surgical education or practical training of surgical skills in their hospitals. Assistance in substeps of an operation was considered to be very important by 72% of the survey participants. Similarly, 71% rated the practical teaching of basic surgical skills as very important. Furthermore, we investigated the availability of theoretical and practical training offerings as well as satisfaction with educational measures and their importance as assessed by the respondents.   SUMMARY The present survey illustrates the current state of surgical education and training in German hospitals. An implementation of pragmatic approaches such as the assistance in substeps of an operation and guided practical training of surgical skills might help to improve the satisfaction of physicians undergoing surgical training.
BACKGROUND The Diverse Surgeons Initiative (DSI) is a program that was created to provide underrepresented minority surgical residents with the clinical knowledge and minimally invasive surgical skills necessary to excel in surgical residency and successfully transition into surgical practice. The early success of the graduates of the program has been published; however, a more longitudinal assessment of the program was suggested and warranted. This study provides a 5-year follow-up of the 76 physicians that participated in the DSI from 2002 to 2009 to determine if the trend toward fellowship placement and academic appointments persisted. Additionally, this extended evaluation yields an opportunity to assess these young surgeons' professional progress and contributions to the field.   STUDY DESIGN The most current professional development and employment information was obtained for the 76 physicians that completed the DSI from 2002 to 2009. The percentage of DSI graduates completing surgical residency, obtaining subspecialty fellowships, attaining board certification, receiving fellowship in the American College of Surgeons, contributing to the peer-reviewed literature, acquiring academic faculty positions, and ascending to professional leadership roles were calculated and compared with the original assessment.   RESULTS Of the 76 DSI graduates, 99% completed general surgery residency. Of those eligible, 87% completed subspecialty fellowships; 87% were board certified; 50% received fellowship in the American College of Surgeons; 76% had contributed to the peer-reviewed literature; 41% had obtained faculty positions; and 18% held local, regional, or national professional leadership positions.   CONCLUSIONS This longitudinal analysis has revealed sustained success of the DSI in preparing underrepresented minority residents to excel in their training and transition into practice, obtain postsurgical fellowships, acquire faculty appointments, and contribute to the advancement of the field of surgery.
BACKGROUND Injuries and surgical diseases are leading causes of global mortality. We sought to identify successful strategies to augment surgical capacity and research endeavors in low-income countries (LIC's) based on existing peer-reviewed literature.   METHODS A systematic review of literature from or pertaining to LIC's from January 2002 to December 2011 was performed. Variables analyzed included type of intervention performed, research methodology, and publication demographics such as surgical specialty, partnerships involved, authorship contribution, place and journal of publication.   FINDINGS A total of 2049 articles met the inclusion criteria between 2002 and 2011. The two most common study methodologies performed were case series (44%) and case reports (18%). A total of 43% of publications were without outcome measures. Only 21% of all publications were authored by a collaboration of authors from low-income countries and developed country nationals. The five most common countries represented were Nepal (429), United States (408), England (170), Bangladesh (158), and Kenya (134). Furthermore, of countries evaluated, Nepal and Bangladesh were the only two with a specific national journal.   INTERPRETATION Based on the results of this research, the following recommendations were made: (1) Describe, develop, and stimulate surgical research through national peer-reviewed journals, (2) Foster centers of excellence to promote robust research competencies, (3) Endorse partnerships across regions and institutions in the promotion of global surgery, and (4) Build on outcome-directed research.
BACKGROUND The aim of this study was to evaluate recommendation patterns of different specialties for the work-up of a palpable breast mass using simulated scenarios and clinical breast examination models.   METHODS Study participants were a convenience sample of physicians (n = 318) attending annual surgical, family practice, and obstetrics and gynecology (OB/GYN) conferences. Two different silicone-based breast models (superficial mass vs chest wall mass) were used to test clinical breast examination skills and recommendation patterns (imaging, tissue sampling, and follow-up).   RESULTS Participants were more likely to recommend mammography (P < .001) and core biopsy (P < .0001) and less likely to recommend needle aspiration (P < .043) and 1-month follow-up (P < .001) for the chest wall mass compared with the superficial mass. Family practitioners were less likely to recommend ultrasound (P < .001) and obstetrics and gynecologists were less likely to recommend mammogram (P < .006) across models. Surgeons were more likely to recommend core biopsy and less likely to recommend needle aspiration across models (P < .001).   CONCLUSIONS Recommendation patterns differed across the 2 models in line with existing practice guidelines. Additionally, differences in practice patterns between primary care and specialty providers may represent varying clinician capabilities, healthcare resources, and individual preferences. Our work shows that simulation may be used to track adherence to practice guidelines for breast masses.
Vascular surgery has evolved dramatically as a specialty, with new training paradigms and an ever-developing, technically demanding field. The ability to evaluate trainees on their fundamental skills is an important step in ensuring some uniformity in trainees' basic technical abilities. This article describes the development and implementation of the fundamentals of vascular and endovascular surgery, including lessons applied from the Fundamentals of Laparoscopic Surgery and Fundamentals of Endoscopic Surgery programs.
BACKGROUND Integrated residencies are now commonplace, co-existing with categorical general surgery residencies. The purpose of this study was to define the impact of integrated programs on categorical general surgery operative volume.   METHODS Case logs from categorical general, integrated plastics, vascular, and thoracic surgery residents from a single institution from 2008 to 2016 were collected and analyzed.   RESULTS Integrated residents have increased the number of cases they perform that would have previously been general surgery resident cases from 11 in 2009-2010 to 1392 in 2015-2016. Despite this, there was no detrimental effect on total major cases of graduating chief residents.   CONCLUSIONS Multiple integrated programs can co-exist with a general surgery program through careful collaboration and thoughtful consideration to longitudinal needs of individual trainees. As additional programs continue to be created, both integrated and categorical program directors must continue to collaborate to insure the integrity of training for all residents.
BACKGROUND Hospital readmission rates after surgery can represent an overall hospital effect or a combination of specialty and patient effects. We hypothesized that hospital readmission rates for procedures within specialties were more strongly correlated than rates across specialties within the same hospital.   STUDY DESIGN For general, orthopaedic, and vascular specialties at Veterans Affairs hospitals during 2008 to 2014, 30-day risk-adjusted readmission rates were estimated for 6 high-volume procedures and each specialty. Relationships were assessed using the Pearson correlation coefficient.   RESULTS At 84 hospitals, 64,724 orthopaedic, 24,963 general, and 10,399 vascular inpatient procedures were performed; mean readmission rates were 6.3%, 13.6%, and 16.4%, respectively. There was no correlation between specialty-specific adjusted hospital readmission rates: general and orthopaedic (r혻= 0.21; p혻= 0.06), general and vascular (r혻= 0.15; p혻= 0.19), and vascular and orthopaedic surgery (r혻= 0.07; p혻= 0.55). Within specialties, we found modest correlations between knee and hip arthroplasty readmission rates (r혻= 0.39; p < 0.01) and colectomy and ventral hernia repair (r혻= 0.24; p혻= 0.03), but not between lower-extremity bypass and endovascular aortic repair (r혻= 0.13; p혻= 0.26). Overall, controlling for patient-level factors, 1.9% of the variation in readmissions was attributable to specialty-level factors; only 0.6% was attributable to hospital-level factors.   CONCLUSIONS Hospital readmission rates for orthopaedic, vascular, and general surgery were not correlated between specialties; within each of the 3 specialties, modest correlations were found between 2 procedures within 2 of these specialties. These findings suggest that hospital surgical readmission rates are primarily explained by patient- and procedure-specific factors and less by broader specialty and/or hospital effects.
BACKGROUND We studied prevalence and predictors of meaningful self-reflection among surgical residents and with prompting/structured interventions, sought to improve/sustain resident skills.   METHODS Residents from six programs recorded 1032 narrative self-reflective comments (120 residents), using a web-based platform. If residents identified something learned or to be improved, self-reflection was deemed meaningful. Independent variables PGY level, resident/surgeon gender, study site/Phase1: July2014-August2015 vs. Phase2: September2015-September2016) were analyzed.   RESULTS Meaningful self-reflection was documented in 40.6% (419/1032) of entries. PGY5's meaningfully self-reflected less than PGY1-4's, 26.1% vs. 49.6% (p혻=혻0.002). In multivariate analysis, resident narratives during Phase 2 were 4.7 times more likely to engage in meaningful self-reflection compared to Phase1 entries (p혻<혻0.001). Iterative changes during Phase2 showed a 236% increase in meaningful self-reflection, compared to Phase1.   CONCLUSIONS Surgical residents uncommonly practice meaningful self-reflection, even when prompted, and PGY5/chief residents reflect less than more junior residents. Substantial/sustained improvements in resident self-reflection can occur with both training and interventions.
BACKGROUND There is no required competency for pediatric vascular injury in surgical training. We sought to describe changes over time for surgical specialists operating on pediatric vascular trauma injuries at a pediatric trauma center.   METHODS Charts were retrospectively reviewed for vascular trauma injuries at a freestanding children's hospital between 1993 and 2015. Data were collected on mechanism, injured vessel(s), operation(s) performed, and specialists performing operation. Surgical specialists were compared over time.   RESULTS Ninety-four patients (median age = 12) underwent 101 pediatric vascular trauma operations. There were significant differences in frequency of types of operations (primary repairs, graft repairs, and ligations) performed by pediatric, vascular, and orthopedic surgeons (P < .001). The proportion of operations performed by vascular surgeons increased and those performed by pediatric surgeons decreased significantly over time.   CONCLUSIONS Various surgical specialists manage pediatric vascular trauma. With expansion of integrated residency programs, surgical specialists managing these patients in the future should be trained in both pediatric and vascular surgery.
BACKGROUND 'Academic surgeon' describes a member of a medical school department of surgery, but this term does not fully define the important role of such physician-scientists in advancing surgical science through translational research and innovation.   METHODS The curriculum vitae and self-descriptive vignettes of the records of achievement of seven surgeons possessing documented records of academic leadership, innovation, and dissemination of knowledge were reviewed.   RESULTS Out analysis yielded seven attributes of the archetypal academic surgeon: 1) identifies complex clinical problems ignored or thought unsolvable by others, 2) becomes an expert, 3) innovates to advance treatment, 4) observes outcomes to further improve and innovate, 5) disseminates knowledge and expertise, 6) asks important questions to further improve care, and 7) trains the next generation of surgeons and scientists.   CONCLUSION Although alternative pathways to innovation and academic contribution also exist, the academic surgeon typically devotes years of careful observation, analysis, and iterative investigation to identify and solve challenging or unexplored clinical problems, ideally leverages resources available in academic medical centers to support these endeavors.
BACKGROUND The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence and severity of dry eye syndrome in a group of Mexican residents of different surgical specialties.   METHODS A cross-sectional descriptive study where the residents were studied using the Ocular Surface Disease Index, together with diagnostic tests for dry eye syndrome, such as tear breakup time, Oxford Schema, Schirmer's test I, and meibomian gland dysfunction testing. Statistical analyses were performed by Pearson's chi-squared test for categorical variables and student's t-test for quantitative variables. Any P value<0.05 was considered statistically significant.   RESULTS One hundred and twenty-three residents were included (246 eyes); 90 (73혻%) were male and 33 (27혻%) were female. The mean age was 27.8됀기2.1혻years. A higher number of residents with dry eye syndrome was found in the cardiothoracic surgery (75혻%) and otorhinolaryngology (71혻%) specialties; 70혻% of them reported ocular symptoms, with teardrop quality involvement in >50혻% of them.   CONCLUSIONS We found a prevalence of 56혻% for mild-to-moderate/severe stages of the condition. Their presence in the operating room predisposes surgical residents to dry eye syndrome because of environmental conditions.
BACKGROUND The study purpose was to identify tumor and surgeon predictors of local recurrence (LR), regional recurrence (RR), and distant metastasis (DM) after breast cancer (BC) surgery in a population-based cohort.   METHODS Consecutive BC surgical cases from 12 hospitals in South Central Ontario between May 2006 and October 2006 were included. Data collected on chart review included patient and tumor factors, surgery type, adjuvant treatment, surgeon specialty, surgeon case volume, and practice type. Univariate and multivariable survival analyses were performed.   RESULTS Median follow-up was 5.5혻years for 402 patients (97% of sample). LR, RR, and DM occurred in 18 (4.5%), 10 (2.5%), and 47 (12%) patients, respectively. Significant predictors of BC recurrence (LR or RR or DM) were tumor size and grade, nodal status, and lymphovascular invasion on multivariable analysis.   CONCLUSION Tumor factors such as size, grade, lymphovascular invasion, and nodal status predicted BC recurrence, while practice type, surgeon specialty, and case volume did not.
Importance Identifying timely and important research questions using relevant patient-reported outcomes (PROs) in surgery remains paramount in the current medical climate. The inaugural Patient-Reported Outcomes in Surgery (PROS) Conference brought together stakeholders in PROs research in surgery with the aim of creating a research agenda to help determine future directions and advance cross-disciplinary collaboration.   Objective To create a research agenda to help determine future directions and advance cross-disciplinary collaboration on the use of PROs in surgery.   Design, Setting, and Participants An iterative web-based interface was used to create a conference-based, modified Delphi survey for registrants at the PROS Conference (January 29-30, 2015), including surgeons, PRO researchers, payers, and other stakeholders. In round 1, research items were generated from qualitative review of responses to open-ended prompts. In round 2, items were ranked using a 5-point Likert scale; attendees were also asked to submit any new items. In round 3, the top 30 items and newly submitted items were redistributed for final ranking using a 3-point Likert scale. The top 20 items by mean rating were selected for the research agenda.   Main Outcomes and Measures An expert-generated research agenda on PROs in surgery.   Results Of the 143 people registered for the conference, 137 provided valid email addresses. There was a wide range of attendees, with the 3 most common groups being plastic surgeons (28 [19.6%]), general surgeons (19 [13.3%]), and researchers (25 [17.5%]). In round 1, participants submitted 459 items, which were reduced through qualitative review to 53 distinct items across 7 themes of PROs research. A research agenda was formulated after 2 successive rounds of ranking. The research agenda identified 3 themes important for future PROs research in surgery: (1) PROs in the decision-making process, (2) integrating PROs into the electronic health record, and (3) measuring quality in surgery with PROs.   Conclusions and Relevance The PROS Conference research agenda was created using a modified Delphi survey of stakeholders that will help researchers, surgeons, and funders identify crucial areas of future PROs research in surgery.
OBJECTIVE To analyze critically the effectiveness and value of bibliometric indicators in journals of Surgery or Cardiovacular Surgery in the context of the postgraduate programs of CAPES Medicine III.   METHODS A sampling with 16 academic programs and one professional master of Medicine III, encompassing the General and Digestive System Surgery, Cardiovascular Surgery and Multidisciplinary courses with such contents, was evaluated. Thomson Reuters/ISI (JCR), Elsevier/Scopus (SJR), and also Scielo databases were used.   RESULTS Only in seven programs, the teachers had an average of Qualis A1 articles greater than the others strata. Eleven journals in the surgical area are in stratum A1 (5%) and it reaches 25% in Cardiovascular Surgery. Among the six journals with the largest number of publications Qualis A1 in area Medicine III, five are from non-specific areas. The Acta Cir첬rgica Brasileira represented 58% of the publications in the stratum A2. There are some obstacles in the Qualis classification with little uniformity among the Medicine areas I, II and III.   CONCLUSIONS A permanent committee should be set to update the Qualis, composed by the three medical areas. It should be considered using other index databases and the unification of the Qualis criteria for journals in medicine. Rating criteria of multi and transdisciplinary journals need to be reviewed. It is essential an institutional financial support for national journals chosen by peers aiming to provide a full computerization process and a professional reviewer of the English language, in order to increase the impact factor.   OBJETIVO Analisar criticamente a efic찼cia e valor de indicadores bibliom챕tricos dos peri처dicos da Cirurgia e Cirurgia Cardiovascular no contexto dos Programas de P처s-Gradua챌찾o da 찼rea Medicina III da CAPES.   M횋TODOS Foi avaliada uma amostragem com 16 programas acad챗micos e um mestrado profissional da 찼rea de Medicina III, compreendendo a Cirurgia Geral e do Aparelho Digestivo, a Cirurgia Cardiovascular e Cursos Multidisciplinares com estes conte첬dos. Utilizaram-se as bases de dados Thomson Reuters/ISI (JCR), Elsevier/Scopus (SJR), al챕m do Scielo.   RESULTADOS Somente nos programas 7, os docentes t챗m m챕dia de artigos Qualis A1 maior ou igual que os demais estratos. Apenas 11 peri처dicos da 찼rea de Cirurgia est찾o no estrato A1 (5%) e na Cirurgia Cardiovascular s찾o 25%. Dos seis peri처dicos com o maior n첬mero de publica챌천es na 찼rea Medicina III, Qualis A1, cinco n찾o s찾o espec챠ficos da 찼rea. A Acta Cir첬rgica Brasileira representou 58% das publica챌천es no estrato A2. H찼 alguns 처bices na classifica챌찾o Qualis com pouca uniformidade entre as Medicinas I, II e III.   CONCLUS횛ES Se imp천e a cria챌찾o de um comit챗 permanente para atualiza챌찾o do Qualis, composto pelas tr챗s 찼reas da Medicina. Deve-se ponderar a utiliza챌찾o de outras bases de indexa챌찾o e a unifica챌찾o dos crit챕rios Qualis para as revistas das 찼reas de medicina. Crit챕rios de classifica챌찾o dos peri처dicos multi e transdisciplinares precisam ser revistos. 횋 imprescind챠vel suporte financeiro institucional aos peri처dicos nacionais escolhidos pelos pares visando informatiza챌찾o completa e prover revis찾o profissional da l챠ngua inglesa, tendo como meta a eleva챌찾o do fator de impacto.
OBJECTIVE To show the way to reach and stay in note 6 in the evaluation process of Medicine III of CAPES.   METHODS Capes determinations were reviewed concerning this topic, grades 6 and 7, and also the difficulties and facilities of running a program that amounted to Note 6 after restructuring and being in compliance with regulations.   RESULTS The main points to achieve and maintain Note 6 were: 1) regular production of master's and doctoral theses with appropriate distribution among all teachers; 2) average time of appropriate titration, as well as strict selection of students who resets the withdrawals and cancellations; 3) production of scientific articles in high impact journals and with academic and student participation in most part; 4) progressive and substantial increase in fundraising and patent search; 5) progressive increase in international exchanges with joint production; 6) visibility through new bilingual website and updated weekly; 7) numerous solidarity activities in research, but also in health services for the population and even in basic education; 8) rigorous selection of students (through design analysis, curriculum and teacher training program); 9) maintenance of high levels teachers production; 10) preparing new teachers for guidance through participation as co-supervision and involvement in the program to fit the needs.   CONCLUSION The Postgraduate Program in Translational Surgery went through difficult times; was submitted to a series of measures, adjustments, cooperation and understanding of the teaching staff, that took the program from note 3 - and almost closing - to a level of excellence keeping note 6 for three consecutive three-year periods of evaluation.   OBJETIVO Mostrar o caminho para alcan챌ar e se manter na nota 6 no processo de avalia챌찾o da Medicina III da Capes.   M횋TODOS Foram revisadas as determina챌천es da Capes concernentes ao tema, conceitos 6 e 7, e tamb챕m as dificuldades e facilidades pr처prias da execu챌찾o de um programa que ascendeu 횪 nota 6 ap처s reestrutura챌찾o e adequa챌찾o 횪s normas vigentes.   RESULTADOS Os pontos principais para alcan챌ar e manter conceito 6 foram: : 1) produ챌찾o regular de teses de mestrado e doutorado com distribui챌찾o adequada entre todos os orientadores; 2) tempo m챕dio de titula챌찾o adequado, assim como r챠gida sele챌찾o do alunado que zera as desist챗ncias e cancelamentos; 3) produ챌찾o de artigos cient챠ficos alta em revistas de impacto e com participa챌찾o docente e discente na sua grande maioria; 4) aumento progressivo e substancial da capta챌찾o de recursos e busca de patentes; 5) aumento progressivo dos interc창mbios internacionais com produ챌찾o conjunta; 6) visibilidade atrav챕s de novo site bil챠ngue e atualizado semanalmente; 7) in첬meras atividades de solidariedade em pesquisa, mas tamb챕m em Servi챌os de Sa첬de para a popula챌찾o e mesmo no ensino b찼sico; 8) rigorosa sele챌찾o dos alunos (atrav챕s de an찼lise de projeto, curr챠culo e programa de est찼gio docente); 9) manuten챌찾o de 챠ndices elevados de produ챌찾o dos docentes; 10) prepara챌찾o de novos docentes para orienta챌찾o atrav챕s de participa챌찾o como co-orienta챌찾o e envolvimento no programa para se adequar 횪s necessidades.   CONCLUS횄O O Programa de P처s-Gradua챌찾o em Cirurgia Translacional passou por momentos dif챠ceis e que atrav챕s de uma s챕rie de medidas, ajustes e a colabora챌찾o e compreens찾o do seu corpo docente pode sair da nota 3 e quase fechamento, para um n챠vel de excel챗ncia mantendo nota 6 em tr챗s tri챗nios seguidos.
INTRODUCTION The following research questions were answered: (1) What are the training pathways followed by the current robot professionals? (2) Are there any differences between the surgical specialties in robot training and robot use? (3) What is their opinion about multidisciplinary basic skills training?   METHODS An online questionnaire was sent to 91 robot professionals in The Netherlands. The questionnaire contained 21 multiple-choice questions focusing on demographics, received robot training, and their opinion on basic skills training in robotic surgery.   RESULTS The response rate was 62혻% (n혻=혻56): 13 general surgeons, 16 gynecologists, and 27 urologists. The urologists performed significantly more robotic procedures than surgeons and gynecologists. The kind of training of all professionals varied from a training program by Intuitive Surgical, master-apprenticeship with or without duo console, fellowship, and self-designed training programs. The training did neither differ significantly among the different specialties nor the year of starting robotic surgery. Majority of respondents favor an obliged training program including an examination for the basics of robot skills training.   CONCLUSION Training of the current robot professionals is mostly dependent on local circumstances and the manufacturer of the robot system. Training is independent of the year of start with robotic surgery and speciality. To guarantee the quality of future training of residents and fellows in robot-assisted surgery, clear training goals should be formulated and implemented. Since this study shows that current training of different specialities does not differ, training in robotic surgery could be started by a multidisciplinary basic skills training and assessment.
BACKGROUND Simulation has been shown to improve trainee performance at the bedside and in the operating room. As the use of simulation-based training is expanded to address a host of health care challenges, its added value needs to be clearly demonstrated. Demonstrable improvements will support the expansion of infrastructure, staff, and programs within existing simulation facilities as well as the establishment of new facilities to meet growing needs and demands. Thus, organizational and institutional leaders, faculty members, and other stakeholders can be assured of the best use of existing resources and can be persuaded to make greater investments in simulation-based training for the future.   METHODS A multidisciplinary panel was convened during the 8th Annual Meeting of the Consortium of the American College of Surgeons-Accredited Education Institutes (Simulation Centers) in March 2015 to discuss the added value of simulation-based training. Panelists shared the ways in which the value of simulation was demonstrated at their institutions.   CONCLUSION The value of simulation-based training was considered and described in terms of educational impact, patient care outcomes, and costs.
BACKGROUND The American College of Surgeons-Accredited Education Institutes (ACS-AEI) Consortium aims to enhance patient safety and advance surgical education through the use of cutting-edge simulation-based training and assessment methods. The annual ACS-AEI Consortium meeting provides a forum to discuss the latest simulation-based training and assessment methods and includes special panel presentations on key topics.   METHODS During the 8th annual Consortium, there was a panel presentation on simulation-based summative assessments, during which experiences from across surgical disciplines were presented. The formal presentations were followed by a robust discussion between the conference attendees and the panelists.   RESULTS This report summarizes the panelists' presentations and their ensuing discussion with attendees.   CONCLUSION The focus of this report is on the basis for and advances in simulation-based summative assessments, the current practices employed across various surgical disciplines, and future directions that may be pursued by the ACS-AEI Consortium.
BACKGROUND As it addresses both technical and nontechnical skills, simulation-based training is playing an increasingly important role in surgery. In addition to the focus on skill acquisition, it is also important to ensure that surgeons are able to perform a variety of tasks in unique and challenging situations. These situations include responding to mass casualties, dealing with disease outbreaks, and preparing for wartime missions. Simulation-based training can be a valuable training modality in these situations, as it allows opportunities to practice and prepare for high-risk and often low-frequency events.   METHODS During the 8th Annual Meeting of the Consortium of the American College of Surgeons-Accredited Education Institutes in March 2015, a multidisciplinary panel was assembled to discuss how simulation can be used to prepare the surgical community for such high-risk events.   CONCLUSION An overview of how simulation has been used to address needs in each of these situations is presented.
BACKGROUND Perceptions of residents regarding pregnancy during training were compared over time and across surgical, internal medicine, obstetrics/gynecology, and anesthesia specialties.   METHODS A single-institution survey was distributed to female residents in 2008 and to female and male residents in 2015. Nonparametric comparisons of Likert scale response distributions were performed on the supportiveness for pregnancy of the residency program and childbearing influences of female residents in 2008 and 2015, between specialties for each survey year, and between male and female residents in 2015.   RESULTS The response rates of female residents were 74.8% and 50.5% in 2008 and 2015. In 2015, program directors and division chiefs were perceived to be more supportive of resident pregnancy than in 2008. Surgical residents had lower perceptions of support compared with other specialties. Residents in programs with female leadership perceived a more supportive environment for pregnancy.   CONCLUSIONS Despite persisting negative stigma, residents across specialties report more support for pregnancy.
PURPOSE Laparoscopic common bile duct exploration (LCBDE) decreases overall costs and length of stay in patients with choledocolithiasis. However, utilization of LCBDE remains low. We sought to evaluate a previously developed general surgery LCBDE simulator among a cohort of pediatric surgical trainees. The study purpose was to evaluate the content validity of an LCBDE simulator to support or refute its use in pediatric surgery education.   MATERIALS AND METHODS After IRB exempt determination, 30 participants performed a transcystic LCBDE using a previously developed simulator and evaluated the simulator using a self-reported 28-item instrument. The instrument consisted of two primary domains (Quality and Ability to Perform) that were rated using twenty-five 4-point rating scales and one 4-point global rating scale. Validity evidence relevant to test content was evaluated using a many-facet Rasch model. Interitem consistency was estimated using Cronbach's alpha. P<.05 was considered statistically significant.   RESULTS The highest combined observed averages were for the Value subdomain (OA=3.79), whereas the lowest ratings were for the Physical/visual attributes subdomain (OA=3.19). The averaged global rating was 3.14, consistent with this simulator can be considered for use in pediatric LCBDE training, but could be improved slightly. Rasch indices were favorable and supported evidence relevant to test content. Interitem consistency estimates were also favorable, with 慣 values of 0.94 and 0.56 for Qualities and Ability, respectively.   CONCLUSIONS Overall, participants rated the LCBDE simulator highly valuable for pediatric surgical education and felt that it could be used as an educational tool with minor modifications.
BACKGROUND There is significant variability in undergraduate Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery (OTOHNS) curricula across Canadian medical schools. As part of an extracurricular program delivered jointly with other surgical specialties, the Surgical Exploration and Discovery (SEAD) program presents an opportunity for medical students to experience OTOHNS. The purpose of this study is to review the participation and outcome of OTOHNS in the SEAD program.   METHODS The SEAD program is a two-week, 80-hour, structured curriculum that exposes first-year medical students to nine surgical specialties across three domains: (1) operating room observerships, (2) career discussions with surgeons, and (3) simulation workshops. During observerships students watched or assisted in surgical cases over a 4-hour period. The one-hour career discussion provided a specialty overview and time for students' questions. The simulation included four stations, each run by a surgeon or resident; students rotated in small groups to each station: epistaxis, peritonsillar abscess, tracheostomy, and ear examination. Participants completed questionnaires before and after the program to evaluate changes in career interests; self-assessment of knowledge and skills was also completed following each simulation. Baseline and final evaluations were compared using the Wilcoxon Signed-Rank test.   RESULTS SEAD participants showed significant improvement in knowledge and confidence in surgical skills specific to OTOHNS. The greatest knowledge gain was in ear examination, and greatest gain in confidence was in draining peritonsillar abscesses. The OTOHNS session received a mean rating of 4.8 on a 5-point scale and was the most popular surgical specialty participating in the program. Eight of the 18 participants were interested in OTOHNS as a career at baseline; over the course of the program, two students gained interest and two lost interest in OTOHNS as a potential career path, demonstrating the potential for helping students refine their career choice.   CONCLUSIONS Participants were able to develop OTOHNS knowledge and surgical skills as well as refine their perspective on OTOHNS as a potential career option. These findings demonstrate the potential benefits of OTOHNS departments/divisions implementing observerships, simulations, and career information sessions in pre-clerkship medical education, either in the context of SEAD or as an independent initiative.
BACKGROUND A consumer model of health supports that people undergoing elective surgery should be informed about the past operative performance of their surgeon before making two important decisions: 1. to consent to the proposed surgery, and 2. to have a particular doctor perform the surgery. This information arguably helps empower patients to participate in their care. While surgeons' performance data are available in some settings, there continues to be controversy over the provision of such data to patients, and the question of whether consumers should, or want to, be provided with this information.   OBJECTIVES To assess the effects of providing a surgeon's performance data to people considering elective surgery on patient-based and service utilisation outcomes.   SEARCH METHODS For the original review, we searched: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, The Cochrane Library, 2009, Issue 4); MEDLINE (Ovid) (1950 to 28 September 2009); EMBASE (Ovid) (1988 to 28 September 2009); PsycINFO (Ovid) (1806 to 28 September 2009); CINAHL (EBSCO) (1982 to 20 October 2009); Current Contents (Ovid) (1992 to 23 November 2009); and ProQuest Dissertations and Theses (1861 to 20 October 2009).For this update, we searched: CENTRAL (2009 to 3 March 2014); MEDLINE (Ovid) (2009 to 3 March 2014); EMBASE (Ovid) (2009 to 3 March 2014); PsycINFO (Ovid) (2009 to 9 March 2014); CINAHL (EBSCO) (2009 to 9 March 2014), Current Contents (Web of Science) (November 2009 to 21 March 2014), and ProQuest Dissertations and Theses (2009 to 21 March 2014). We applied no language restrictions.   SELECTION CRITERIA Randomised controlled trials (RCTs), cluster RCTs, quasi-RCTs and controlled before and after studies (CBAs), in which an individual surgeon's performance data were provided to people considering elective surgery. We considered the CBAs for inclusion from 2009 onwards.   DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS Two review authors (AH, SH) independently assessed all titles, abstracts, or both of retrieved citations. We identified no studies for inclusion. Consequently, we conducted no data collection or analysis.   MAIN RESULTS We found no studies that met the inclusion criteria; therefore, there are no results to report on the effect of the provision of a surgeon's performance data for people considering elective surgery.   AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS We found no studies reporting the impact of the provision of a surgeon's performance data for people considering elective surgery. This is an important finding in itself. While the public reporting of a surgeon's performance is not a new concept, the efficacy of this data for individual patients has not been empirically tested. A review of qualitative studies or new primary qualitative research may be useful to determine what interventions are currently in use and explore the attitudes of consumers and professionals towards such interventions.
BACKGROUND Wrong site surgery defines a category of rare but totally preventable complications in surgery and other invasive disciplines. Such complications could be associated with severe morbidity or even death. As such complications are entirely preventable, wrong site surgery has been declared by the World Health Organization to be a 'never event'.   MATERIAL AND METHODS A selective search of the PubMed database using the MeSH terms 'wrong site surgery', 'wrong site procedure', 'wrong side surgery' and 'wrong side procedure' was performed.   RESULTS The incidence of wrong site surgery has been estimated at 1 out of 112,994 procedures; however, the number of unreported cases is estimated to be higher. Although wrong site surgery occurs in all surgical specialities, the majority of cases have been recorded in orthopedic surgery. Breakdown in communication has been identified as the primary cause of wrong site surgery. Risk factors for wrong site surgery include time pressure, emergency procedures, multiple procedures on the same patient by different surgeons and obesity. Check lists have the potential to reduce or prevent the occurrence of wrong site surgery.   CONCLUSION The awareness that to err is human and the individual willingness to recognize and prevent errors are the prerequisites for reducing and preventing wrong site surgery.
BACKGROUND We aim to report a 5-year retrospective multicentric European survey about the outcome of laparoscopic partial nephrectomy in infants and children with duplex kidneys.   METHODS The data of fifty-two children underwent laparoscopic partial nephrectomy (42 upper-pole nephrectomies and 10 lower-pole nephrectomies) in six European centers of Pediatric Surgery, were collected and analyzed. Median age at surgery was 5.1 years (range 6 months-9.7 years). There were 32 girls and 20 boys. In 37 patients, the left side was affected and in 15 patients the right side. For the right side, 4 trocars were used and for the left side 3/4 trocars. Special hemostatic devices were used for dissection and parenchymal section in all centers. We assessed intraoperative and postoperative morbidity.   RESULTS Median length of surgery was 166.2 min (70-215 min). No conversion to open surgery nor intraoperative bleeding was reported. Mean hospitalization was 3.5 days. We recorded 10/52 complications (4 urinomas, 2 recurrent UTIs, 4 prolonged urinary leakage), all managed conservatively. Reoperation rate was 0%. No loss of renal function on the residual kidney moiety was recorded in all operated patients.   CONCLUSIONS Laparoscopic partial nephrectomy remains a technically challenging procedure performed only in pediatric centers with high experience in minimally invasive surgery. Although the median operative time was higher than 2 h, we recorded no conversions in our series. The complication rate remains high (10/52-19.2%). All were II grade complications according to Clavien-Dindo classification and were treated conservatively without the need of other surgical procedures.
BACKGROUND Chronic sleep deprivation combined with work during the night is known to affect performance and compromise residents' own safety. The aim of this study was to examine markers of circadian rhythm and the sleep-wake cycle in surgeons working night shifts.   METHODS Surgeons were monitored prospectively for 4혻days: pre call, on call, post call day 1 (PC1), and post call day 2 (PC2). The urinary metabolite of melatonin and cortisol in saliva were measured to assess the circadian rhythm. Sleep and activity were measured by actigraphy. Subjective measures were assessed by the Karolinska Sleepiness Scale and Visual Analog Scale of fatigue, general well-being, and sleep quality.   RESULTS For both metabolite of melatonin and cortisol, a significant difference (P < .05) was found in the measurement period between on call and pre call values. There was increased sleep time during the day on call and on PC1. For all subjective measures, a marked deterioration was seen on PC1.   CONCLUSION Surgeons' circadian rhythm was affected by working night shifts.
IMPORTANCE Nearly 1400 medical students enter preliminary surgical residency each year; placing some of these students into categorical surgical training is an important component of building the future surgical workforce.   OBJECTIVES To examine the training outcomes of preliminary residents in a university and Veterans Affairs surgical residency and to test the hypothesis that characteristics of these residents could be identified that would predict successful placement into categorical general surgical residency.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS A retrospective cohort of 66 nondesignated preliminary surgical residents who entered a research-intensive, university-based surgical training program with significant Veterans Affairs hospital experience between 2004 and 2012.   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Placement of preliminary residents into a categorical general surgical residency.   RESULTS Of 66 nondesignated preliminary residents enrolled in our program during the study period, 57 completed a postgraduate year (PGY) 1 and 22 completed a PGY-2. A total of 21 residents (32%) secured categorical general surgical positions, 8 of 57 (14%) after PGY-1 and 13 of 22 (59%) after PGY-2, a significantly different rate (P<.001). Predictors of success in obtaining a categorical position included a PGY-2, United States Medical Licensing Examination step 2 score, year 1 American Board of Surgery In-Training Examination score, class rank, and prior graduate medical education. By multivariable analysis, only the PGY-2 was significant (P<.03). Residents who obtained categorical surgical positions after 1 preliminary year had significantly higher United States Medical Licensing Examination scores (mean [SD] step 1 score, 235.4 [23.5] vs 206.3 [16.2]; P<.02; step 2 score, 239.3 [21.2] vs 218.5 [16.1]; P<.05) but did not have higher year 1 American Board of Surgery In-Training Examination percentiles (mean [SD], 63.3 [33.3] vs 47.3 [30.8]; P<.34).   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Performing a PGY-2 preliminary year increases the chance for a preliminary surgical resident to obtain a place in a categorical surgical residency. Programs that offer preliminary positions should consider offering both PGY-1 and PGY-2 positions, because the PGY-2 increases the categorical surgical placement rate, especially for residents with lower test scores.
OBJECTIVE Determine the usefulness of a Moodle-type education platform for knowledge development with residents in the medical and surgical emergencies (MSE) specialty.   METHODS This quasi-experimental study compared the departmental evaluations of MSE residents in two Mexican hospital units after they did their academic work using different educational strategies. The control group used a traditional format (classroom-style teaching with guided discussion), while the comparison group had access to a variety of resources (forums, chat, wikis, downloaded files) on a Moodle-type platform. Nonparametric statistics were used. The study was conducted during the 2010 - 2011 and 2011 - 2012 academic years. Three versions of the course were made available online, geared to the academic level of the residents (first, second, or third year).   RESULTS There were statistically significant differences in the mid-year evaluations, and improvements were even greater in the evaluations at the end of the academic year, especially for the third-year residents. In both academic years, the mid-year evaluations reported that only one resident in the control group performed within the average range, while the majority were in the lower range. The resources most used with the platform Moodle were downloaded files (77%) and the forum (63%). Still, 46.4% of the residents said that they encountered some type of limitation when they used the platform, the main one being lack of time (76.9%).   CONCLUSIONS The Moodle-type education platform appears to be useful and to offer greater opportunities for knowledge development compared with the traditional strategies. It is recommended that educational strategies based on Moodle-type platforms be implemented for MSE and other medical specialties.
The Intercollegiate Committee for Basic Surgical Examinations (ICBSE) is responsible for the standard, quality assurance, and continued development of both the MRCS and the Diploma in Otolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery (DOHNS). It is accountable to the 4 Royal Colleges of Surgeons in the U.K. and Ireland, and the General Medical Council (GMC). This article gives information and an update (including pass rates) for candidates and trainers on the 2013 MRCS format, and summarises the most recent changes to the examination made by the ICBSE with the approval of the GMC.
BACKGROUND Cadaveric dissection is the gold standard for surgical simulation because it demonstrates authentic anatomy and tissue handling. We present a perfusion technique that restores blood flow and pressure in the fresh human cadaveric model.   METHODS The femoral vessels were cannulated and perfused using a vortex centrifugal pump and a novel perfusate. The trachea was intubated and mechanically ventilated. Tissue perfusion was evaluated by direct inspection, intravascular pressure monitoring, and indocyanine green angiography. A cost analysis and survey results for 969 trainees is presented.   RESULTS A mean arterial pressure of 80혻mm Hg and venous pressure of 15혻mm Hg were established, resulting in dermal and microvascular perfusion. Successful pulmonary ventilation was achieved. This model has been applied to 122 cadaveric specimens over 12혻months in a variety of surgical subspecialties and training levels. Total cost for establishing the perfused model was $1,262.55. Trainee confidence after use of the model increased from 2.85 to 4.20 (P < .00).   CONCLUSIONS Perfusion of fresh cadavers replicates human tissue handling, vascular anatomy, and dissection. The perfused human cadaver increases the authenticity of surgical simulation and is applicable to procedure-based specialties.
BACKGROUND Patterns of adoption of acute care surgery (ACS) as a strategy for emergency general surgery (EGS) care are unknown.   METHODS We conducted a qualitative study comprising face-to-face interviews with senior surgeons responsible for ACS at 18 teaching hospitals chosen to ensure diversity of opinions and practice environment (three practice types [community, public or charity, and university] in each of six geographic regions [Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, New England, Northeast, South, and West]). Interviews were recorded, transcribed, and analyzed using NVivo (QSR International, Melbourne, Australia). We applied the methods of investigator triangulation using an inductive approach to develop a final taxonomy of codes organized by themes related to respondents' views on the future of ACS as a strategy for EGS. We applied our findings to a conceptual model on diffusion of innovation.   RESULTS We found a paradox between ACS viewed as a health care delivery innovation versus a rebranding of comprehensive general surgery. Optimism for the future of ACS because of increased desirability for trauma and critical care careers as well as improved EGS outcomes was tempered by fear over lack of continuity, poor institutional resources, and uncertainty regarding financial viability. Our analysis suggests that the implementation of ACS, whether a true health care delivery innovation or an innovative rebranding, fits into the Rogers' diffusion of innovation theory.   CONCLUSIONS Despite concerns over resource allocation and the definition of the specialty, from the perspective of senior surgeons deeply entrenched in executing this care delivery model, ACS represents the new face of general surgery that will likely continue to diffuse from these early adopters.
OBJECTIVE To explore surgeons' perceptions of and potential concerns about coaching.   BACKGROUND There is growing recognition that the traditional model of continuing professional development is suboptimal. This has led to increasing interest in alternative strategies that take place within the actual practice environment such as coaching. However, if coaching is to be a successful strategy for continuing professional development, it will need to be accepted by surgeons.   METHODS This was a qualitative interview-based study using a constructivist grounded theory approach. Participants included 14 surgeons from University of Toronto-affiliated hospitals.   RESULTS Participants expressed 3 main concerns about coaching: questioning the value of technical improvement ('As you get older if you don't have the stimulation from surgery to get better or to do things that are different and you are so good at so much, why bother [with coaching]?' P009), worry about appearing incompetent ('I think it would be perceived as either a sign of weakness or a sign of inability' P532), and concern about losing autonomy ('To me that would be real coaching where it's self-identified, I'm motivated, I find the person and then they coach me' P086).   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Coaching faces unique challenges in the context of a powerful surgical culture that values the portrayal of competency and instills the value of surgical autonomy. This study suggests that hanging on to these tightly held values of competency and autonomy is actually limiting the ways, and extent to which, surgeons can improve their practice.
BACKGROUND Despite the rapid growth in the use of simulation in health professions education, courses vary considerably in quality. Many do not integrate efficiently into an overall school/program curriculum or conform to academic accreditation requirements. Moreover, some of the guidelines for simulation design are specialty specific.   STUDY DESIGN We designed a model that integrates best practices for effective simulation-based training and a modification of Kern et al.'s 6-step approach for curriculum development. We invited international simulation and health professions education experts to complete a questionnaire evaluating the model. We reviewed comments and suggested modifications from respondents and reached consensus on a revised version of the model.   RESULTS We recruited 17 simulation and education experts. They expressed a consensus on the seven proposed curricular steps: problem identification and general needs assessment, targeted needs assessment, goals and objectives, educational strategies, individual assessment/feedback, program evaluation, and implementation. We received several suggestions for descriptors that applied the steps to simulation, leading to some revisions in the model.   CONCLUSION We have developed a model that integrates principles of curriculum development and simulation design that is applicable across specialties. Its use could lead to high-quality simulation courses that integrate efficiently into an overall curriculum.
PURPOSE The purpose of this study was to assess the current status of subspecialization in North American pediatric surgical practices and to evaluate factors associated with subspecialization.   METHODS A survey was sent to each pediatric surgical practice in the United States and Canada. For each of 44 operation types, ranging in complexity and volume, the respondents chose one of the following responses: 1. everyone does the operation; 2. group policy--only some surgeons do the operation; 3. group policy--anyone can do it but mentorship required; 4. only some do it due to referral patterns; 5. no one in the group does it. Association of various factors with degree of subspecialization was analyzed using nonparametric statistics with p<0.05 considered significant.   RESULTS Response rate was 70%. There was significant variability in subspecialization among groups. Factors found to be significantly associated with increased subspecialization included free-standing children's hospitals, pediatric surgery training programs, higher number of surgeons, higher case volume, and greater volume of tertiary/quaternary cases.   CONCLUSIONS There is wide variation in the degree of subspecialization among North American pediatric surgery practices. These data will help to inform ongoing debate around strategies that may be useful in optimizing pediatric surgical care and patient outcomes in the future.
BACKGROUND Multiple studies have shown the significantly increased post-operative morbidity and mortality of patients undergoing palliative operations. It has been proposed by some authors that the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS-NSQIP) database can be used reliably to develop risk-calculators or as an aid for clinical decision-making in advanced cancer patients. ACS-NSQIP is a population-based database that by design only captures outcomes data for the first 30-day following an operation. We considered the suitability of these data as a tool for decision-making in the advanced cancer patient.   METHODS Six-year retrospective review of a single institution's ACS-NSQIP database for cases identified as 'Disseminated Cancer'. Procedures performed with palliative intent were identified and analyzed.   RESULTS Of 7,763 patients within the ACS-NSQIP database, 138 (1.8%) were identified as having 'Disseminated Cancer'. Of the remaining 7,625 entries only 4,486 contained complete survival data for analysis. Thirty-day mortality within the 'Disseminated Cancer' group was higher when compared to all other surgical patients (7.9% vs. 0.9%, P<0.001). Explicit chart review of these 138 patients revealed that 32 (23.2%) had undergone operations with palliative intent. Overall survival for palliative and non-palliative operations was significantly different (104 vs. 709 days, P<0.001). When comparing palliative to non-palliative procedures using ACS-NSQIP data, we were unable to detect a difference in 30-day mortality (9.4% vs. 7.5%, P=0.72).   CONCLUSIONS Calculations utilizing ACS-NSQIP data fail to demonstrate the increased mortality associated with palliative operations. Patients diagnosed with advanced cancer are not adequately represented within the database due to the limited number of cases collected. Also, more suitable outcomes measures for palliative operations such as pain relief, functional status, and quality of life, are not captured. Therefore, the sole use of thirty-day morbidity and mortality data contained in the ACS-NSQIP database is insufficient to make sound decisions for surgical palliation.
BACKGROUND The 2010 Haiti earthquake severely strained local healthcare infrastructure. In the wake of this healthcare crisis, international organizations provided volunteer support. Studies demonstrate that this support improved short-term recovery; however, it is unclear how long-term surgical capacity has changed and what role volunteer surgical relief efforts have played. Our goal was to investigate the role of international surgical volunteers in the increase of surgical capacity following the 2010 Haiti earthquake.   METHODS We retrospectively analyzed the operative reports of 3208 patients at a general, trauma and critical care hospital in Port-au-Prince from June 2010 through December 2013. We collected data on patient demographics and operation subspecialty. Surgeons and anesthesiologists were categorized by subspecialty training and as local healthcare providers or international volunteers. We performed analysis of variance to detect changes in surgical capacity over time and to estimate the role volunteers play in these changes.   RESULTS Overall number of monthly operations increased over the 2.5 years post-earthquake. The percentage of orthopedic operations declined while the percentage of other subspecialty operations increased (p = 0.0003). The percentage of operations performed by international volunteer surgeons did not change (p = 0.51); however, the percentage of operations staffed by volunteer anesthesiologists declined (p = 0.058). The percentage of operations performed by matching specialty- and subspecialty-trained international volunteers has not changed (p = 0.54).   CONCLUSIONS Haitian post-earthquake local and overall surgical capacity has steadily increased, particularly for provision of subspecialty operations. Surgical volunteers have played a consistent role in the recovery of surgical capacity. An increased focus on access to surgical services and resource-allocation for long-term surgical efforts particularly in the realm of subspecialty surgery may lead to full recovery of surgical capacity after a large and devastating natural disaster.
BACKGROUND The operating theatre (OT) is a complex environment. The purpose of this survey was to evaluate the implementation of the surgical checklist (SC) at individual level by Belgian Surgeons.   METHODS A Surgical Checklist Questionnaire (SCQ) related to the use of the SC by individual surgeons was attached to the registration website for the 2015 Belgian Surgical Week. It was a one page long, user friendly document, easy to be filled voluntarily and anonymously.   RESULTS Among the 206 surgeons who registered, 81 (39%) filled in the SCQ. The SC template proposed by the WHO 'Safe Surgery Saves Lives' initiative was used by 91% of the respondents. However, 89% adapted the SC to their local hospital environment, and 87.5% use it personally for their patients. Since implementation, the SC was never adapted in 46%. According to 21% of respondents, an adverse event was avoided thanks to the SC. Amazingly, SC was considered as an administrative burden by 83% despite the same percentage recognized that patients benefited from the SC. Only 28% of respondents got feedback from the use of the SC.   CONCLUSIONS In this survey, the number of adverse event avoided thanks to the use of the SC demonstrates that SC -represents a simple strategy for addressing surgical patient safety in OT. Nevertheless, SC is still considered by many surgeons as an additional administrative burden and/or as just another gimmick. Further studies are needed to understand why some surgeons are still not willing to adapt to a changing safety culture.
Recent initiatives in global health have emphasized universal coverage of essential health services. Surgical conditions play a critical role in child health in resource-poor areas. This article discusses (1) the spectrum of pediatric surgical conditions and their treatment; (2) relevance to recent advances in global surgery; (3) challenges to the prioritization of surgical care within child health, and possible solutions; (4) a case example from a resource-poor area (Uganda) illustrating some of these concepts; and (5) important child health initiatives with which surgical services should be integrated. Pediatric surgery providers must lead the effort to prioritize children's surgery in health systems development.
Congenital anomalies once considered fatal, are now surgically correctable conditions that now allow children to live a normal life. Pediatric surgery, traditionally thought of as a privilege of the rich, as being too expensive and impractical, and which has previously been overlooked and excluded in resource-poor settings, is now being reexamined as a cost-effective strategy to reduce the global burden of disease-particularly in low, and middle-income countries (LMICs). However, to date, global pediatric surgical financing suffers from an alarming paucity of data. To leverage valuable resources and prioritize pediatric surgical services, timely, accurate and detailed global health spending and financing for pediatric surgical care is needed to inform policy making, strategic health-sector budgeting and resource allocation. This discussions aims to characterize and highlight the evidence gaps that currently exist in global financing and funding flow for pediatric surgical care in LMICs.
Surgery is increasingly recognized as an essential component of global health development. This article will review the state of global pediatric surgery, utilizing congenital anomalies as a framework in which to discuss the promise of pediatric surgery in reducing the global burden of disease. Congenital anomalies are responsible for a substantial burden of morbidity and mortality in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), as well as significant emotional and economic harms to the families of children with congenital anomalies. Limited pediatric surgical capacity in many LMICs has culminated in a devastating burden of avertable disability and death. Pediatric surgery is an effective and cost-effective means to reduce this burden. Pediatric surgeons must continue to drive the growth of global pediatric surgery by engaging in clinical practice, educational partnerships, and research initiatives.
Most of the world is in a surgical workforce crisis. While a lack of human resources is only one component of the myriad issues affecting surgical care in resource-poor regions, it is arguably the most consequential. This article examines the current state of the pediatric surgical workforce in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) and the reasons for the current shortfalls. We also note progress that has been made in capacity building and discuss priorities going forward. The existing literature on this subject has naturally focused on regions with the greatest workforce needs, particularly sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). However, wherever possible we have included workforce data and related literature from LMICs worldwide. The pediatric surgeon is of course critically dependent on multi-disciplinary teams. Surgeons in high-income countries (HICs) often take for granted the ready availability of excellent anesthesia providers, surgically trained nurses, radiologists, pathologists, and neonatologists among many others. While the need exists to examine all of these disciplines and their contribution to the delivery of surgical services for children in LMICs, for the purposes of this review, we will focus primarily on the role of the pediatric surgeon.
There are several different models of education and care delivery models in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), and many endeavors combine more than one of the described models. This article summarizes the burden of pediatric surgical disease and discusses the benefits and shortcomings of the following: faith-based missions; short-term surgical trips; partnerships, twinning, and academic collaborations; teaching workshops, 'train the trainer,' and pediatric surgery camps; specialty treatment centers; online conferences, telemedicine, and mobile health; specific programs for exchange and education; and training in high-income countries (HICs), fellowships, and observorships. It then addresses ethical concerns common to all humanitarian pediatric surgical efforts.
The body of literature addressing surgical and anesthesia care for children in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) is small. This lack of research hinders full understanding of the nature of many surgical conditions in LMICs and compromises potential efforts to alleviate the significant health, welfare and economic burdens surgical conditions impose on children, families and countries. This article will evaluate the need for improved global pediatric surgery research by (1) presenting the current state of surgical research for children in LMICs and (2) discussing methods and opportunities for improvement within the political context of current global health priorities.
BACKGROUND Crohn's disease (CD) is frequently complicated by intestinal strictures, which are commonly treated by endoscopic balloon dilation (EBD). However, available data on this area of treatment is limited. The aim of this study was to depict the heterogeneity of endoscopic management of CD-associated strictures among international CD specialists to identify common treatment standards.   METHODS IBD experts of the International Organization for the Study of Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IOIBD), the European Crohn's and Colitis Organization (ECCO), and from the Prospective Value In IBD trials (PROVIT) completed a web-based questionnaire to evaluate their endoscopic experience, practice setting, and number of EBDs performed annually. Additionally, two case scenarios and technical practice parameters were investigated.   RESULTS A total of 126 subjects from 15 countries completed the survey. The maximal length of dilated stricture was 4.5혻짹혻1.7혻cm. The most commonly used maximal balloon size was graded as 15-18혻mm. While 87.2혻% of the participants favored EBD for anastomotic strictures, only 58.6혻% did so in the case of na챦ve strictures. Only 35.7혻% of physicians dilated actively inflamed strictures. Interventional endoscopists were more likely to dilate only clinically symptomatic strictures (p혻=혻0.046). Surgeons favored surgical treatment of de novo ileocecal strictures compared to gastroenterologists (p혻=혻0.026), reported a shorter stricture length being amendable by EBD (p혻=혻0.045), and more frequently used concomitant therapies (p혻=혻0.001). Operator experience increased the likelihood of EBD use in actively inflamed strictures (p혻=혻0.002), maximum length of stricture, and maximum balloon size (p혻=혻0.001).   CONCLUSIONS EBD is a widely used treatment approach for stricturing CD. Individual approaches differ significantly based on background of the operator, experience level, and practice setting.
BACKGROUND Laparoscopic models for ex vivo up-skilling are becoming increasingly important components of surgical education. This study aims to establish the construct validity and possible educational role of a new laparoscopic box trainer equipped with a motion-tracking device.   METHODS A structured questionnaire was used to assign participants into novice, intermediate, or expert categories according to level of experience in minimal access surgery (MAS). Participants carried out a well-defined intracorporeal suturing task. Three specific motion analysis parameters (MAPs)-velocity, acceleration, and range-were measured and analyzed as movements in the four degrees of freedom available in traditional MAS using tracking sensors at the trocar insertion sites.   RESULTS The number of extreme velocity and acceleration events in all four degrees of freedom proved capable of differentiating between participants in the three categories of surgical experience using an ANOVA test (p혻<혻0.001). Post hoc analysis confirmed these differences in the number of extreme velocity and acceleration events between all groups tested except for the velocity of the roll between the intermediates and experts.   CONCLUSION These findings confirm construct validity for this new laparoscopic box trainer system, which employs a novel analysis based on motion parameters. Motion parameters provide information regarding the overall smoothness of the operator's instrument handling, an important aspect of a surgeon's technique. This preliminary data will be used to design a simulator with real-time motion feedback to enhance its educational value.
INTRODUCTION Robotic surgery is a rapidly expanding field. Thus far training for robotic techniques has been unstructured and the requirements are variable across various regions. Several projects are currently underway to develop a robotic surgery curriculum and are in various stages of validation. We aimed to outline the structures of available curricula, their process of development, validation status and current utilization.   METHODS We undertook a literature review of papers including the MeSH terms 'Robotics' and 'Education'. When we had an overview of curricula in development, we searched recent conference abstracts to gain up to date information.   RESULTS The main curricula are the FRS, the FSRS, the Canadian BSTC and the ERUS initiative. They are in various stages of validation and offer a mixture of theoretical and practical training, using both physical and simulated models.   DISCUSSION Whilst the FSRS is based on tasks on the RoSS virtual reality simulator, FRS and BSTC are designed for use on simulators and the robot itself. The ERUS curricula benefits from a combination of dry lab, wet lab and virtual reality components, which may allow skills to be more transferable to the OR as tasks are completed in several formats. Finally, the ERUS curricula includes the OR modular training programme as table assistant and console surgeon.   CONCLUSION Curricula are a crucial step in global standardisation of training and certification of surgeons for robotic surgical procedures. Many curricula are in early stages of development and more work is needed in development and validation of these programmes before training can be standardised.
BACKGROUND Increasing requirements in quality management are leading to a rising number of certifications in the healthcare system. The certification of an institution should lead to this institution being chosen for treatment.   OBJECTIVES This study was carried out to evaluate this statement for surgical oncology.   MATERIAL AND METHODS A questionnaire was developed with which 100 patients, 40 general practitioners and 20 heads of oncology departments were surveyed with respect to the reasons for choosing a specific institution for oncological surgery.   RESULTS Of the patients 40% followed the recommendations of their general practitioner while only 6% considered certification as being relevant although 50% believed certification was most important for their practitioner when choosing the surgical institution. Personal acquaintances were paramount for the choice of institution for 38.1% of private practitioners, whereas none of the interviewees claimed that certification had had an influence. Of the heads of department 53.8% answered that certification was irrelevant when referring a patient to another hospital.   CONCLUSION Despite widespread certification of surgical departments, patients, practitioners and heads of departments still rely on recommendations or personal experiences when choosing an institution for surgical oncology. The return rate of 16.4% (41 received out of 250 questionnaires sent out) for practitioners shows the lack of interest in certification although 50% of patients believed that the referral was based on this. Certification in surgical oncology has not yet been able to achieve the desired position as a strong quality factor showing that certification has not fulfilled one of the major goals and only plays an insignificant role in patient recruitment via referrals.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE Technical skills assessment is considered an important part of surgical training. Subjective assessment is not appropriate for training feedback, and there is now increased demand for objective assessment of surgical performance. Economy of movement has been proposed as an excellent alternative for this purpose. The investigators describe a readily available method to evaluate surgical skills through motion analysis using accelerometers in Apple's iPod Touch device.   METHODS Two groups of individuals with different minimally invasive surgery skill levels (experts and novices) were evaluated. Each group was asked to perform a given task with an iPod Touch placed on the dominant-hand wrist. The Accelerometer Data Pro application makes it possible to obtain movement-related data detected by the accelerometers. Average acceleration and maximum acceleration for each axis (x, y, and z) were determined and compared.   RESULTS The analysis of average acceleration and maximum acceleration showed statistically significant differences between groups on both the y (P = .04, P = .03) and z (P = .04, P = .04) axes. This demonstrates the ability to distinguish between experts and novices. The analysis of the x axis showed no significant differences between groups, which could be explained by the fact that the task involves few movements on this axis.   CONCLUSION Accelerometer-based motion analysis is a useful tool to evaluate laparoscopic skill development of surgeons and should be used in training programs. Validation of this device in an in vivo setting is a research goal of the investigators' team.
BACKGROUND While some data exist for the burden of pediatric surgical disease in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), little is known about pediatric surgical capacity. In an effort to better plan and allocate resources for pediatric surgical care in LMICs, a survey of pediatric surgical capacity using specific tool was needed.   METHODS Based on the previously published Surgeons OverSeas Personnel, Infrastructure, Procedure, Equipment, and Supplies (PIPES) survey, a pediatric PIPES (PediPIPES) survey was created. To ensure relevance to local needs and inclusion of only essential items, a draft PediPIPES survey was reviewed by nine pediatric surgeons and modifications were incorporated into a final tool. The survey was then distributed to surgeons throughout sub-Saharan Africa. Data from West Africa (37 hospitals in 10 of the 16 countries in the subregion) were analyzed.   RESULTS Fewer than 50% (18/37) of the hospitals had more than two pediatric surgeons. Neonatal or general intensive care units were not available in 51.4% (19/37) of hospitals. Open procedures such as appendectomy were performed in all the hospitals whereas less-invasive interventions such as non-operative intussusception reduction were done in only 41% (15/37). Life-saving pediatric equipment such as apnea monitors were not available in 65% (24/37) of the hospitals.   CONCLUSIONS The PediPIPES survey was useful in documenting the pediatric surgical capacity in West Africa. Many hospitals in West Africa are not optimally prepared to undertake pediatric surgery. Our study showed shortages in personnel, infrastructure, procedures, equipment, and supplies necessary to adequately and appropriately provide surgical care for pediatric patients.
BACKGROUND One of the major challenges of competency-based training is defining a score representing a competent performance. The objective of this study was to set pass scores for the Objective Structured Assessment of Technical Skill.   METHODS Pass scores for the examination were set using three standard setting methods applied to data collected prospectively from first-year surgical residents (trainees). General surgery residents were then assigned an overall pass-fail status for each method. Using a compensatory model, residents passed the eight station examinations if they met the overall pass score; using a conjunctive model, residents passed if they met the overall pass score and passed at least 50 per cent of the stations. The consistency of the pass-fail decision across the three methods, and between a compensatory and conjunctive model, were compared.   RESULTS Pass scores were stable across all three methods using data from 513 residents, 133 of whom were general surgeons. Consistency of the pass-fail decision across the three methods was 95.5 and 93.2 per cent using compensatory and conjunctive models respectively. Consistency of the pass-fail status between compensatory and conjunctive models for all three methods was also very high (91.7, 95.5 and 96.2 per cent).   CONCLUSION Consistency in pass-fail status between the various methods builds evidence of validity for the set scores. These methods can be applied and studied across a variety of assessment platforms, helping to increase the use of standard setting for competency-based training.
BACKGROUND A recent survey of fellowship directors suggested significant deficits in the technical laparoscopic skills of graduated general surgery residents. Our aim was to define the need for and possible content of a simulation-based curriculum in advanced laparoscopic skills (ALS).   METHODS An anonymous online survey was distributed to all Fellowship Council program directors (PDs), current fellows, and recent fellowship graduates. The survey was designed to assess the perceived need for, possible content of, and implementation challenges to an ALS curriculum. Recently developed simulation-based advanced laparoscopic tasks included off-angle camera work and restricted space suturing. Images and descriptions of these tasks were evaluated by respondents, and suggestions for modifications or improvements solicited via free text response.   RESULTS Of 186 respondents (response rate: 64%), 40% were current fellows, 22% were fellowship graduates, and 37% were PDs. Respondents primarily self-identified as minimally invasive and/or bariatric surgeons (78%) and hepatobiliary surgeons (12%). Most respondents (73%) identified a need for an ALS curriculum. All 3 respondent groups cited laparoscopic needle positioning and suturing (78%) and bimanual coordination during dissection and retraction (72%) as the skills in most need of improvement. In addition, most of the responding PDs identified 'lack of familiarity with anatomy and procedure' (74% of PDs) and 'lack of proficiency at laparoscopic bowel anastomosis' (59% of PDs) as problem areas. Respondents felt that successful implementation of an ALS curriculum depended on both overall feasibility and the ability for repeated practice and should not be dependent on cost. Thematic analysis of free responses revealed the following priorities for possible ALS skills and tasks: (1) difficult dissections and exposures, (2) forehand and/or backhand and suturing under tension, (3) nondominant hand drills, (4) working with an off-set camera, and (5) suturing and handling fragile tissue with properties similar to peritoneum or bowel.   CONCLUSIONS We present survey results identifying several specific ALS set deficits among graduating general surgery residents, including advanced suturing, bimanual coordination, and managing difficult anatomy. Next, the results of this needs assessment will be used to develop an advanced laparoscopic curriculum for residents entering minimally invasive surgery fellowships and careers.
BACKGROUND The purpose of this study was to integrate relevant goal-setting theory and to identify if trainees' goal orientations have an impact on the assigned goals-performance relationship.   METHODS Trainees attended 1 of the 3 goal-training activities (do your best, performance, or learning goals) for knot tying (KT) and camera navigation (CN) during the 3rd-year clerkship rotation. Questionnaires and pretests and/or post-tests were completed.   RESULTS One twenty-seven 3rd-year medical students (age: 25 짹 2.6; 54% women) participated in the training program. Pretraining to post-training performance changes were significant for all groups on both tasks (P < .01), but the increase was significantly greater (P < .01) for the learning goals group (do your best: KT = 2.14, CN = 1.69; performance: KT = 2.49, CN = 2.24; learning: KT = 3.04 CN = 2.76). Correlations between goal orientations and improvement were examined, revealing a unique role of goal orientation for performance improvement.   CONCLUSIONS These data indicate that consideration of goal type and trainee goal orientation must be considered during curriculum development to maximize educational value.
Introduction In 2011 The Royal College of Surgeons of England (RCS) set out best practice standards for emergency surgery. This national pilot audit aimed to determine the compliance of otolaryngology departments in England with these published guidelines. Methods A 26-item online questionnaire was devised that encompassed all the 36 best practices as set out by the RCS for ear, nose and throat (ENT) surgery. This was sent to ENT trainees and consultants based at units in England providing emergency ENT services. Results Data were obtained from 55 of the 102 units (response rate: 54%). A mean compliance of 71% was achieved (range: 25-94%). No units achieved all of the best practices. The standards with the highest compliance included 24-hour availability of blood transfusion and haematology opinion for patients with epistaxis, availability of a consultant or ST3/equivalent for immediate discussion of severe post-tonsillectomy bleeding, 24-hour access to blood transfusion for arrest of haemorrhage and immediate theatre access for arrest of haemorrhage. The areas with the lowest compliance were provision of a pathway for angiography/embolisation for epistaxis and provision of an equipped ENT room on a paediatric ward. Conclusions This audit has highlighted that the majority of departments in England are providing a good standard of ENT emergency care. There is room for improvement in certain areas, such as the provision of an embolisation pathway in the context of refractory epistaxis. We hope that this audit will encourage ENT departments to evaluate their current provision of emergency care and institute changes (where necessary) to maintain and improve their practices.
BACKGROUND Poor communication is a known contributor to disasters in aviation and medicine. Crew members are trained to raise concerns about superiors' plans, yet literature exploring surgical trainees' responses to analogous concerns is sparse.   METHODS Surgical residents were interviewed about approaches to concerns about supervisors' clinical decisions using a semistructured guide. Emerging themes were developed using the constant comparative method.   RESULTS Eighteen residents participated. They expressed a tension between conceding ultimate decision-making authority to supervisors and prioritizing obligations to the patient. Systemic (eg, departmental culture, resident autonomy), supervisor (eg, approachability), trainee (eg, knowledge), and clinical (eg, risk of harm, evidence quality) factors influenced the willingness to voice concerns. Most described verbalizing concerns in question form, whereas some reported expressing concerns directly.   CONCLUSIONS Several factors affect surgical trainees' management of concerns about supervisors' plans. No consistent method is used. A tailored curriculum addressing strategies to raise concerns appears warranted to optimize patient safety.
Robotic assistance became a leading trend in minimally invasive surgery, which is based on the global success of laparoscopic surgery. Manual laparoscopy requires advanced skills and capabilities, which is acquired through tedious learning procedure, while da Vinci type surgical systems offer intuitive control and advanced ergonomics. Nevertheless, in either case, the key issue is to be able to assess objectively the surgeons' skills and capabilities. Robotic devices offer radically new way to collect data during surgical procedures, opening the space for new ways of skill parameterization. This may be revolutionary in MIS training, given the new and objective surgical curriculum and examination methods. The article reviews currently developed skill assessment techniques for robotic surgery and simulators, thoroughly inspecting their validation procedure and utility. In the coming years, these methods will become the mainstream of Western surgical education.
OBJECTIVE To assess the accuracy of surgeons and anaesthetists in predicting the time it will take them to complete an operation or procedure and therefore explain some of the difficulties encountered in operating theatre scheduling.   DESIGN Single centre, prospective observational study.   SETTING Plastic, orthopaedic, and general surgical operating theatres at a level 1 trauma centre serving a population of about 370,000.   PARTICIPANTS 92 operating theatre staff including surgical consultants, surgical registrars, anaesthetic consultants, and anaesthetic registrars.   INTERVENTION Participants were asked how long they thought their procedure would take. These data were compared with actual time data recorded at the end of the case.   PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURE Absolute difference between predicted and actual time.   RESULTS General surgeons underestimated the time required for the procedure by 31 minutes (95% confidence interval 7.6 to 54.4), meaning that procedures took, on average, 28.7% longer than predicted. Plastic surgeons underestimated by 5 minutes (-12.4 to 22.4), with procedures taking an average of 4.5% longer than predicted. Orthopaedic surgeons overestimated by 1 minute (-16.4 to 14.0), with procedures taking an average of 1.1% less time than predicted. Anaesthetists underestimated by 35 minutes (21.7 to 48.7), meaning that, on average, procedures took 167.5% longer than they predicted. The four specialty mean time overestimations or underestimations are significantly different from each other (P=0.01). The observed time differences between anaesthetists and both orthopaedic and plastic surgeons are significantly different (P<0.05), but the time difference between anaesthetists and general surgeons is not significantly different.   CONCLUSION The inability of clinicians to predict the necessary time for a procedure is a significant cause of delay in the operating theatre. This study suggests that anaesthetists are the most inaccurate and highlights the potential differences between specialties in what is considered part of the 'anaesthesia time.'
The aim of the study is to present the development of hospital services and the teaching of medicine, and the development of urology in Danzig (Gda흦isk). Well known Danzig surgeons who were interested in surgery of the genitourinary system are also presented. The beginning of urological surgery and its development within the framework of the department of surgery and as an independent facility at the Medical Academy of Gdafisk in the post-war period is also described. Extensive research was undertaken for the collection of literature and documents in German and Polish archives and libraries in order to prepare this study. The history of hospitals in Danzig goes back to the arrival of the Teutonic Knights in 1308. The earliest institution, according to historical sources, was the Hospital of the Holy Spirit, built in the years 1310-1311. It was run by the Hospitalet Order until 1382, and was intended for the sick, elderly and disabled people, orphans and needy pilgrim, and the poor. Later centuries saw the further development of hospital services in Danzig. In the 19th century, the city's increas ing population, the development of the sciences, and rapid advances in medicine subsequently led to the establishment of three more hospitals in Gdafisk: The Hospital for Obstetrics and Gynaecological Disease (1819), the Holy Virgin Hospital (1852), and the Evangelical Hospital of Deaconess Sisters (1857), in addition to the old Municipal Hospital. In 1911, new modern buildings of Municipal Hospital in Danzig were finished. On the basis of the Municipal Hospi- tal, the Academy of Practical Medicine was established in 1935. It was known under the name Staatliche Akademie fiir Praktische Medizin in the Free City of Danzig. Five years later (in 1940) the Academy was developed and changed to the Medical Academy of Danzig (Medizinische Akad- emie Danzig - MAD). The beginning of medical teaching at the middle level in Danzig (Gdafsk) dates back to the 16th century. It had its origins in the Chair of Anatomy and Medicine at Danzig Academic Gymnasium (GA; Sive Illustre), an establishment which lasted for 239 years, from 1584 to 1812. The history of surgery in Danzig has its roots in the centuries-old tradition of the medical practice of surgeons who were associated in the Surgeons Guild, teaching, as well medical and scientific research. The Surgeons Guild existed in Danzig from 1454 to 1820. Over the centuries manual intervention was also in the hands of academically uneducated persons such as bath house attendants, barbers, and wandering surgeons. Until the end of 1946 there was no separate urology department in Danzig. Urological surgery was in the hands of surgeons. Interventions and operations on genitourinary organs were carried out, more or less, in all surgical departments. The end of World War II created a new political situation in Europe. Danzig (now Gdafisk) and Pomerania became part of Poland. In 1945, on the basis of the former MAD, the Polish Government established the Polish Academy of Physicians, later renamed the Medical Academy in Gdafisk (Gdafiska Akademia Medyczna - GAM). In 2009, GAM was again renamed, as the Medical University of Gdafisk (Gdaiski Uniwersytet Medyczny). The political changes after World War II accelerated the process of the separation of urology from surgery. In May 1947, a 30-bed Urological Ward was opened in Gdanisk, in Debinki Street, forming part of the First Surgical Clinic of the Academy of Physicians (headed by Prof. Kornel Michejda, 1887-1960, later by Prof. Stanislaw Nowicki, 1893-1972, and lastly by Prof. Zdzislaw Kieturakis, 1904-1971). The first head doctor of the new urological ward was Dr. Tadeusz L$renz (1906-1986), a urologist from Lvov (Lemberg). After the departure of Professor Lorenz to Wrodclaw (Breslau) in 1958, Dr. Jan Renkielski was acting as Head of the Urological Ward until 1971. In 1971 the ward was transformed to the separate Department of Urology. Docent ('lecturer'), and later Professor, Kazimierz Adamkiewicz from Zabrze (Hindenburg) became its Head. Professor Adamkiewicz organized and equipped the Department, leading it quickly to the level of modern departments in the areas of research, teaching, and therapy. During Professor Adamkiewicz's ill- ness, and after his retirement in 1988, Docent Kazimierz Krajka, Later Professor) headed the urological department until his retirement in 2012. Since 1 October 2012, Associate Professor (Docent) Marcin Matuszewski (*1965) has been the head of the Department of Urology in Gda흦isk.
BACKGROUND We investigated provider and regional variation in payments made to surgeons by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) by indexing payments to unique beneficiaries treated and examined the proportion of charges that resulted in payments. Understanding variation in care within CMS may prove actionable by identifying modifiable, and potentially unwarranted, variations.   METHODS We analyzed the Medicare Part B Provider Utilization and Payment Data released by CMS for 2012. We included Medicare B participants in the fee-for-service program. We calculated for each provider the ratio of number of services provided to individual beneficiaries, and the ratio of total submitted charges to total Medicare payments. We also categorized each provider into deciles of total Medicare payments, and calculated the means per decile of total Medicare payment for surgeons and urologists. To determine any associations with ratio of services to beneficiaries, we conducted multivariate linear regressions.   RESULTS The 20th, 40th, 60th, and 80th percentiles for the services-per-beneficiary ratios are 1.6, 2.2, 3.1, and 5.0, respectively (n혻=혻83,376). Greater-earning surgeons offered more services per beneficiary, with a precipitous increase from the lowest decile to the highest. Charges were consistently greater than payments by a factor of 3. In our multivariate analysis of services per beneficiary ratio, female providers had lower ratios (P혻<혻.01), and we noted significant regional variation in the ratio of services per unique beneficiary (P혻<혻.001 for each of the 10 Standard Federal Regions).   CONCLUSION We found significant variation in patterns of payments for surgical care in CMS.
PURPOSE Resident participation in operative procedures is mandatory in educational residency programs but remains controversial, especially in the context of patient safety. This study compared the surgical quality and outcomes of thyroidectomies performed by surgical residents (RESs) and board-certified surgeons (BCSs).   METHODS This retrospective matched-pair study included patients undergoing thyroidectomies for multinodular goiter, Grave's disease and early-stage thyroid cancer that were performed by a RES with BCS supervision between 2006 and 2014. The intraoperative and postoperative course, complication rates and handling of the recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN) and parathyroid glands were analyzed.   RESULTS In total, 112 thyroidectomies that were performed by a RES fulfilled the inclusion criteria and were matched 1:1 with BCS patients. We included 88 hemithyroidectomies, 80 subtotal thyroidectomies and 56 total thyroidectomies. No significant differences in the handling of the RLN or parathyroid glands, the rates of postoperative RLN palsies or the rates of hypocalcaemia were found. No intraoperative complications led to the replacement of the RES as the surgeon-in-charge. Three RES and two BCS patients experienced postoperative haemorrhages (p=0.205), and three surgical site infections (p=1.000) occurred in each group. The mean operative time and the length of stay did not differ significantly between the two groups.   CONCLUSIONS Major aspects of patient safety in thyroid surgery are not affected by resident participation. Thyroidectomies performed by RES are not significantly longer and reveal no differences in length of stay or complication rates. The economic burden of resident involvement is modest.
The Society for Surgery of the Alimentary Track (SSAT) is committed to diversity and inclusiveness of its membership, promotion of research related to healthcare disparities, cultural competency of practicing gastrointestinal surgeons, and cultivation of leaders with unique perspectives. The SSAT convened a task force to assess the current state of diversity and inclusion and recommend sustainable initiatives to promote these goals. Working through the current committee structure of the Society, and by establishing a permanent Diversity and Inclusion liaison committee, the SSAT will maintain its commitment and strive towards diversity of thought and inclusiveness on every level to improve the well-being and betterment of its membership and the patients they serve.
Knowledge of the profile and professional integration of new graduates enables adjustments in medical education. This study evaluated 107 graduates from a private institution in the Brazilian South region, using a self-administered electronic questionnaire. There were similar participation of young physicians of both genders and higher male concentration in general surgery. Graduates are inserted in the public and private labor market. Most do extra shifts in emergency services and trauma surgery, where there is greater need for clinical and surgical skills. These findings suggest that adequate surgical training during graduation is critical to employability. RESUMO O conhecimento do perfil e inser챌찾o profissional dos rec챕m-formados possibilita ajustes na educa챌찾o m챕dica. Este estudo avaliou 107 egressos de institui챌찾o privada no sul do pa챠s, utilizando question찼rio eletr척nico autoaplic찼vel. Houve participa챌찾o similar de jovens de ambos os sexos e maior concentra챌찾o masculina na 찼rea de cirurgia geral. Os egressos est찾o inseridos no mercado de trabalho p첬blico e privado. A maioria faz plant천es extras em servi챌os de emerg챗ncia e cirurgia do trauma, onde h찼 maior necessidade de habilidades clinicas e cir첬rgica. Esses achados apontam que a forma챌찾o cir첬rgica adequada durante a gradua챌찾o 챕 fundamental para a empregabilidade.
Changes in the delivery of the healthcare structure have led to the expansion of the non-medical workforce (NMW). The non-medical practitioner in surgery (a healthcare professional without a medical degree who undertakes specialist training) is a valuable addition to a surgical firm. However, there are a number of challenges regarding the successful widespread implementation of this role. This paper outlines a number of these concerns, and makes recommendations to aid the realisation of the non-medical practitioner as a normal part of the surgical team. In summary, the Association of Surgeons in Training welcomes the development of the non-medical workforce as part of the surgical team in order to promote enhanced patient care and improved surgical training opportunities. However, establishing a workforce of independent/semi-independent practitioners who compete for the same training opportunities as surgeons in training may threaten the UK surgical training system, and therefore the care of our future patients.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) has set out its new aims for the post-2015 global agenda in the form of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Discussions around the historically neglected role of emergency and essential surgical interventions in global health has attracted widespread attention with the help of well-timed, high-profile reports including the Lancet Commission for Global Surgery [1]. The case for promoting safe surgery is clear with evidence suggesting that at least two-thirds of the years of life lost globally will be attributed to surgical conditions by 2025 [1]. In 2010 alone, almost 17 million lives, and more than 70 million disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) were lost due to surgically treatable conditions [1]. A central component of the SDGs is its renewed focus on health as a human right in the form of Universal Health Coverage (UHC). However, there are doubts as to how nations will be able to keep the 'promise of leaving no-one behind' without explicit reference to global surgery within the SDG framework [2].
UNLABELLED CONSTRUCT: The competence of a trainee to perform a surgical procedure was assessed using an electronic tool.   BACKGROUND 'Going paperless' in healthcare has received significant attention over the past decades given the numerous potential benefits of converting to electronic health records. Not surprisingly, medical educators have also considered the potential benefits of electronic assessments for their trainees. What literature exists on the transition from paper-based to electronic-based assessments suggests a positive outcome. In contrast, work done examining the transition to and implementation of electronic health records has noted that hospitals who have implemented these systems have not gone paperless despite the benefits of doing so.   APPROACH This study sought to transition a paper-based assessment tool, the Ottawa Surgical Competency Operating Room Evaluation (which has strong evidence for validity) to an electronic version, in three surgical specialties (Orthopedic Surgery, Urology, General Surgery). However, as the project progressed, it became necessary to change the focus of the study to explore the issues of transitioning to a paperless assessment tool as we identified an extremely low participation rate.   RESULTS Over the first 3 months 440 assessment cases were logged. However, only a small portion of these cases were assessed using the electronic tool (Orthopedic Surgery = 16%, Urology = 5%, General Surgery = 0%). Participants identified several barriers in using the electronic assessment tool such as increased time compared to the paper version and technological issues related to the log-in procedure.   CONCLUSIONS Essentially, users want the tool to be as convenient as paper. This is consistent with research on electronic health records implementation but different from previous work in medical education. Thus, we believe our study highlights an important finding. Transitioning from a paper-based assessment tool to an electronic one is not necessarily a neutral process. Consideration of potential barriers and finding solutions to these barriers will be necessary in order to realize the many benefits of electronic assessments.
BACKGROUND As of 2012, 39% of medical student graduates were nonwhite, yet very few nonwhite women graduates chose to become surgeons.   METHODS To better understand issues regarding nonwhite women in surgery, an online survey was sent to surgeons across the United States. Results are based on self-reported data. Mean data are reported.   RESULTS A total of 194 surgeons (42% women) completed the survey; only 12% of responders were nonwhite. Overall, 56% of nonwhite women felt they earned less than what men surgeons earn for equal work. Nonwhite women surgeons earned less than what men surgeons ($224,000 vs. 351,000, p < 0.00002) and white women surgeons ($285,000, p = 0.02) earned. Overall, 96% of nonwhite surgeons believed that racial discrimination currently exists among surgeons.   CONCLUSIONS The few nonwhite women surgeons in the United States recognize that they are paid significantly less than what other surgeons are paid. Inequitable remuneration and a discriminatory work environment encountered by nonwhite women surgeons must be addressed.
PURPOSE Increasing numbers of programs participating in the pediatric surgery match has resulted in economic and logistical issues for candidates, General Surgery residencies, and Pediatric Surgery training programs (PSTP). We sought to determine the ideal number of interviews conducted by programs based on resultant rank order lists (ROL) of matched candidates.   METHODS PSTPs received 4 online surveys regarding interview practices (2011-2012, 2014), and matched candidate ROL (2008-2010, 2012, 2014). Program directors (PD) also provided estimates regarding minimum candidate interview numbers necessary for an effective match (2011-2012, 2014). Kruskal-Wallis equality-of-populations rank tests compared ROL and interview numbers conducted. Quartile regression predicted ROL based on the interview numbers. Wilcoxon signed rank-sum tests compared the interview numbers to the minimal interview number using a matched pair. p Values<0.05 were significant.   RESULTS Survey response rates ranged from 85-100%. Median ROL of matched candidates (2-3.5) did not differ between programs (p=0.09) and the lowest matched ROL for any year was 10-12. Interview numbers did not affect the final candidate ROL (p=0.22). While PDs thought the minimum median interview number should be 20, the number actually conducted was significantly higher (p<0.001).   CONCLUSION These data suggest that PSTPs interview excessive numbers of candidates. Programs and applicants should evaluate mechanisms to reduce interviews to limit costs and effort associated with the match.
BACKGROUND To emphasise the value of on-going commitment in Global Health Partnerships.   MATERIALS AND METHODS A hospital link, by invitation, was set up between United Kingdom and Tanzania since 2002. The project involved annual visits with activities ranging from exchange of skill to training health professionals. Furthermore, the programme attracted teaching and research activities. For continuity, there was electronic communication between visits.   RESULTS Six paediatric surgeons are now fully trained with three further in training in Africa. Paediatric surgery services are now separate from adult services. Seven trainee exchanges have taken place with four awarded fellowships/scholarships. Twenty-three clinical projects have been presented internationally resulting in eight international publications. The programme has attracted other health professionals, especially nursing and engineering. The Tropical Health and Education Trust prize was recently achieved for nursing and radiography. National Health Service has benefited from volunteering staff bringing new cost-effective ideas. A fully funded medical student elective programme has been achieved since 2008.   CONCLUSION Global Health Partnerships are an excellent initiative in establishing specialist services in countries with limited resources. In the future, this will translate into improved patient care as long as it is sustained and valued by long term commitment.
INTRODUCTION Simulation-based training is playing an increasingly important role in surgery. However, there is insufficient discussion among the surgical specialties regarding how simulation may best be leveraged for training. There is much to be learned from one another as we all strive to meet new requirements within the context of Undergraduate Medical Education, Graduate Medical Education, and Continuing Medical Education.   METHOD To address this need, a panel was convened at the 6th Annual Meeting of the Consortium of the American College of Surgeons-Accredited Education Institutes consisting of key leaders in the field of simulation from 4 surgical subspecialties, namely, general surgery, orthopedic surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, urology, and otolaryngology.   CONCLUSION An overview of how the 5 surgical specialties are using simulation-based training to meet a wide array of educational needs for all levels of learners is presented.
OBJECTIVES The intensivist-led model of ICU care requires surgical consultants and the ICU team to collaborate in the care of ICU patients and to communicate effectively across teams. We sought to characterize communication between intensivists and surgeons and to assess enablers and barriers of effective communication.   DESIGN Qualitative interview study. An inductive data analysis approach was taken.   SETTING Seven intensivist-led ICUs in four academic hospitals.   SUBJECTS Surgeons (attendings and residents), intensivists (attendings and residents), and ICU nurses participating in the care of surgical patients in the ICU.   INTERVENTIONS None.   MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS Communication enablers and barriers existed at two distinct levels: 1) organizational and 2) cultural. At an organizational level, participants identified that formally sanctioned communication structures and processes often acted as barriers to communication. Participants had developed informal strategies to improve communication. At a cultural level, surgical and ICU participants often expressed conflicting perspectives regarding patient ownership, scope of practice, and clinical expertise.   CONCLUSIONS Major barriers to optimal communication between surgical and ICU teams exist in the intensivist-led ICU environment. Many are related to the structures and processes meant to facilitate communication across teams and others to how some aspects of care in the ICU are conceptualized. Multiple actionable opportunities exist to improve communication in the intensivist-led ICU.
BACKGROUND Sexual function is an important factor in quality of life, but at risk after several surgical cancer treatments. Our aim was to identify the practice, responsibility, attitudes, knowledge and barriers of surgical oncologists towards providing informed consent on sexual side effects and sexual counselling.   METHODS A 31-item questionnaire was sent to all 437 members of the Dutch Society for Surgical Oncology (NVCO).   RESULTS The majority of 165 responding surgical oncologists (85.5%) stated that discussing sexual function is their responsibility, 13.0% thought it to be somebody else's responsibility. During informed consent of a planned surgical procedure, sexual side effects are mentioned by 36.6% of surgeons in more than half of the cases. Counselling sexual function was performed by 9.2% of the surgeons in more than half of the cases. Older surgeons (46 y) and male surgeons discuss sexual concerns more often (p = 0.006 v p = 0.045). Barriers most mentioned included advanced age of the patient (50.6%), not relevant for all types of cancers (43.8%), lack of time (39.9%) and no angle or motive for asking (35.2%). Additional training on counselling patients for sexual concerns was required according to 46.3%.   CONCLUSION Surgical oncologists do not routinely discuss sexual concerns. Informed consent includes limited information about possible complications on sexual function. Surgeons consider themselves responsible for raising the issue of sexual dysfunction, but consider advanced age of patients, lack of time and no angle or motive for asking as major barriers. Results emphasize the need for raising awareness and providing practical training.
Inspiration and innovation go hand in hand. Throughout history tragedies, including those personal and life altering, have inspired susceptible minds to find innovative ways to educate and tackle difficult problems. This address is first about origins. It weaves the story of how incredible individuals and events have shaped similar circumstances into not only our profession of pediatric surgery beginning with William E. Ladd, but also the emergency and trauma care system in this country. The address circles back to look at the past and future of our profession of pediatric surgery. Predictive models forecast that we are training too many pediatric surgeons in the traditional sense. The address describes how we might envision a paradigm shift in training using a different model and capitalizing on the talents of more young surgeons who want to take care of children. We are an incredible profession, but many have abdicated a need to include trauma patients and critical care in their practice of pediatric surgery. The model would include different pathways of training, enable more surgeons to be capable in aspects of children's surgical care, and provide optimal general surgical care for more children in the United States. This is an opportunity to redefine Ladd's path.
Elisabeth K. Wynne, MD, completed her undergraduate degree in bioengineering and is currently a surgical resident in training at the University of Washington. From 2014-2016, she served as a Biodesign Fellow at Stanford University. She plans to pursue a career of innovation as an academic surgeon. Thomas M. Krummel, MD, is the Emile Holman Professor and Chair Emeritus of the Department of Surgery at Stanford University School of Medicine. Throughout his career, Dr Krummel has been a pioneer and an innovator. For >12혻years, he has partnered with Dr Paul Yock to co-direct the Stanford Biodesign program, which is designed to teach innovation at the emerging frontiers of engineering and biomedical sciences. Dr Krummel is Chairman of the Fogarty Institute for Innovation Board of Directors, and President of the International Scientific Committee at Institut de Recherche contre les Cancers de l'Appareil Digestif - IRCAD at the University of Strasbourg and is a frequent consultant to the medical device industry.
Craniofacial surgery (CFS) has a rich history of collaboration with a wide variety of surgical and nonsurgical specialties. This has resulted in a large volume of publications across this spectrum of subspecialties cataloging the advancements across the field. The authors aim to analyze the characteristics of the most cited articles in CFS. A literature search was performed using the Thomson/Reuters Web of Knowledge database to identify the top 50 most cited articles in CFS. The articles were analyzed for journal distribution, total citations, year of publication, citations per year, number of authors, type of article, institution, departmental affiliation, national affiliation, and top contributors. The articles were extracted from an assortment of 21 journals. The number of citations per article ranged from 115 to 1092 (average of 185). Forty-eight percent of articles were published in the 1990s, and 22% in the 2000s. The average number of years since publication until the present time was 21.34 (range 6-45 y). The most cited article (1092 citations and 52 citations/y) was an article by McCarthy et al on human mandible lengthening via gradual distraction. Departmental distribution indicated that the majority were attributable to departments of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery for 21 articles (42%). Twenty articles were categorized under cranial defect/bone substitutes, 12 under craniosynostosis, 7 under surgical modeling, 6 under distraction osteogenesis, and the remaining 5 under other. These articles qualitatively represent important milestones in CFS. This study affirms the potential value of 'number of citations' as a meaningful metric when assessing the importance of an article within CFS.
We measured the motivation and interest of medical students in oral and maxillofacial surgery at a German university. After a detailed cost-benefit analysis of a course that used an ex-vivo animal model and active participation in the operating theatre, we measured changes in the students' interest in taking up a surgical specialty in the future. We found that practical experience could lower the expenses of the course by almost 70%. Twenty per cent of students chose oral and maxillofacial surgery as an elective in their final year. These students could be residents one day.
The surgeon-scientist offers a unique perspective as one who can arguably best comprehend clinical needs, identify areas ripe for research, and translate discoveries from bench to bedside. However, the long transition from postdoc to independent investigator can prove to be quite challenging. Surgeons have long been described as having results-oriented personalities, and so the long road to independence can be fraught with frustration at times. It requires humility in seeking scientific direction and mentorship, institutional support, and ultimately extramural funding. This reflection piece examines some hallmark steps along the pathway to independence for one otolaryngology-head and neck surgeon-scientist in her early academic career.
BACKGROUND Few studies have explored the factors associated with the preference of medical students to pursue a specific specialty, and even fewer have observed how these preferences and factors change over time.   METHODS A longitudinal survey of medical students was administered at the beginning of first year, second year, and clerkships from 2013-2016. Surveys included demographics and factors associated with their choice of specialty.   RESULTS Response rates were 78-94%. Students with mentors and research experience in any specialty were 3.4 times (P혻<혻.001) more likely to choose surgery by their third year of medical school. Surgical research experience on the first- and second-year surveys was associated with 39 (P혻<혻.001) and 10 times (P혻<혻.001) greater odds of preferring surgical specialties on their third-year survey. Medical students who had a surgery mentor during the first and second years were associated with 4 (P혻=혻.024) and 13 times (P혻<혻.001) greater odds of preferring surgical specialties on their third-year survey.   CONCLUSION Students who begin surgical research during their first year and develop relationships with surgeon mentors during their second year are significantly more likely to maintain an interest in surgical specialties.
BACKGROUND Accurate documentation in surgical operation notes is crucial in facilitating the postoperative care of surgical patients and forms an important medicolegal document. This study audited the quality and completeness of documentation in surgical operation notes at a single district general hospital against the Royal College of Surgeons (2014) Good Surgical Practice guidelines, and looked to improve clinical practice through improved compliance with these guidelines.   METHOD A total of 101 operation notes were audited from a variety of surgical specialities in November 2014 (cycle 1) and 100 notes in May 2015 (cycle 2). Documentation was audited against 19 standards found in the Royal College of Surgeons guidelines. The results were presented at the trust clinical governance meeting. Interventions included clinician education, aide memoires in theatres and the introduction of a new operation note.   RESULTS Six of the 19 standards had >90% compliance in cycle 1 and 12 out of 19 in cycle 2. There were dramatic improvements in documentation in many fields including time (4% to 60%, P<0.0001), elective or emergency procedure (1% to 83%, P<0.0001), problems or complications (67% to 100%, P=0.016), estimated blood loss (2% to 73%, P<0.0001), antibiotic prophylaxis (47% to 96%, P<0.0001), venous thromboembolism prophylaxis (43% to 83%, P<0.0001) and signature (78% to 97%, P<0.0001).   CONCLUSIONS This audit has demonstrated that significant improvements in documentation in operation notes can be achieved through simple interventions. The introduction of an improved operation note that addresses each standard from the Royal College of Surgeons guidelines helped to guide clinicians to include important and relevant information.
Background and Aims. We initiated peroral endoscopic myotomy (POEM) utilizing a two-person technique with combination of an advanced endoscopist and a thoracic surgeon with complementary skills. Our aim was to determine the feasibility and outcomes in initial 20 patients. Methods. In this observational study, main outcomes measured were therapeutic success in relieving symptoms (Eckardt score < 3), decrease in lower esophageal sphincter (LES) pressures, improvement in emptying on timed barium esophagogram (TBE), and complications. Results. POEM was successful in all 20 patients with a mean operative time of 140.1 + 32.9 minutes. Eckardt symptom scores decreased significantly at two-month follow-up (6.4 + 2.9 versus 0.25 + 0.45, p < 0.001). Both basal and residual LES pressures decreased significantly (28.2 + 14.1뎜mHg versus 12.8 + 6.3 and 22.4 + 11.3 versus 6.3 + 3.4뎜mHg, p = 0.025 and <0.001, resp.). Barium column height at 5 minutes on TBE reduced from 6.8 + 4.9뎑m to 2.3 + 2.9뎑m (p = 0.05). Two patients (10%) had mucosal perforations and one had delayed bleeding (5%). Conclusions. Two-person technique of POEM with combination of an advanced endoscopist and a thoracic surgeon is highly successful with low risk of complications.
BACKGROUND The application of safety principles from the aviation industry to the operating room has offered hope in reducing surgical complications. This study aimed to assess the impact on major surgical complications of adding an aviation-based team training programme after checklist implementation.   METHODS A prospective parallel-group cluster trial was undertaken between September 2011 and March 2013. Operating room teams from 31 hospitals were assigned randomly to participate in a team training programme focused on major concepts of crew resource management and checklist utilization. The primary outcome measure was the occurrence of any major adverse event, including death, during the hospital stay within the first 30 days after surgery. Using a difference-in-difference approach, the ratio of the odds ratios (ROR) was estimated to compare changes in surgical outcomes between intervention and control hospitals.   RESULTS Some 22779 patients were enrolled, including 5934 before and 16845 after team training implementation. The risk of major adverse events fell from 8쨌8 to 5쨌5 per cent in 16 intervention hospitals (adjusted odds ratio 0쨌57, 95 per cent c.i. 0쨌48 to 0쨌68; P<0쨌001) and from 7쨌9 to 5쨌4 per cent in 15 control hospitals (odds ratio 0쨌64, 0쨌50 to 0쨌81; P<0쨌001), resulting in the absence of difference between arms (ROR 0쨌90, 95 per cent c.i. 0쨌67 to 1쨌21; P=0쨌474). Outcome trends revealed significant improvements among ten institutions, equally distributed across intervention and control hospitals.   CONCLUSION Surgical outcomes improved substantially, with no difference between trial arms. Successful implementation of an aviation-based team training programme appears to require modification and adaptation of its principles in the context of the the surgical milieu. Registration number: NCT01384474 (http://www.clinicaltrials.gov).
Changes in lifestyle, career expectations, and working environments, alongside the feminisation of the workforce have resulted in an increased demand for Less Than Full-time Training (LTFT) within surgery. However, provision of and adequacy of flexible training remain variable. It is important that LTFT options are provided to ensure surgery is an attractive and viable career option, and can compete with other specialties to attract and retain the best candidates to maintain high standards of patient care. LTFT options should be readily available to both genders within surgical specialities. Furthermore, improved information for those considering LTFT should be available, locally, regionally and nationally. Training within LTFT posts should be tailored to the training requirements of the individual, in order to achieve the competencies necessary for completion of training. The recommendations set out in this consensus statement should inform the trainee's position and help guide discussions with respect to the provision of LTFT within surgery.
PURPOSE The goal of this study was to examine how industrial process improvement techniques could help streamline the preoperative workup.   METHODS Lean process improvement was used to streamline patient workup at an endocrine surgery service at a tertiary medical center utilizing multidisciplinary collaboration. The program consisted of several major changes in how patients are processed in the department. The goal was to shorten the wait time between initial call and consult visit and between consult and surgery.   RESULTS We enrolled 1,438 patients enrolled in the program. The wait time from the initial call until consult was reduced from 18.3혻짹혻0.7 to 15.4혻짹혻0.9혻days. Wait time from consult until operation was reduced from 39.9혻짹혻1.5 to 33.9혻짹혻1.3혻days for the overall practice and to 15.0혻짹혻4.8혻days for low-risk patients. Patient cancellations were reduced from 27.9혻짹혻2.4% to 17.3혻짹혻2.5%. Overall patient flow increased from 30.9혻짹혻5.1 to 52.4혻짹혻5.8 consults per month (all P혻<혻.01).   CONCLUSION Utilizing process improvement methodology, surgery patients can benefit from an improved, streamlined process with significant reduction in wait time from call to initial consult and initial consult to surgery, with reduced cancellations. This generalized process has resulted in increased practice throughput and efficiency and is applicable to any surgery practice.
BACKGROUND Patient harm resulting from medical treatment may be a traumatic experience for health care staff. This study examined surgeons' levels of traumatic stress in the aftermath of the most recent major complication that happened in their patients' care and its relationship with surgeons' coping strategies, causal attributions, and perceived institutional culture around surgical complications.   METHODS Forty-seven general and vascular surgeons from 3 National Health Service Trusts in London, UK completed a questionnaire assessing the aforementioned variables (64.4% response rate).   RESULTS One-third of the participants reported traumatic stress of clinical concern 1 month after the incident. The use of self-distraction (P < .05) and being a general surgeon (P < .05) were predictive of traumatic stress of clinical concern in multiple logistic regression analysis.   CONCLUSIONS Some surgeons may experience acute traumatic stress after serious surgical complications. The extent to which this is of clinical concern is associated with their use of self-distraction as well as the clinical setting. Health care organizations need to attend to surgeons' psychological needs in the aftermath of serious adverse events.
PURPOSE Physicians regularly encounter challenging and/or complex situations in their practices; in training settings, they must help learners understand such challenges. Context becomes a fundamental construct when seeking to understand what makes a situation challenging and how physicians respond to it; however, the question of how physicians perceive context remains largely unexplored. If the goal is to teach trainees to deal with challenging situations, the medical education community requires an understanding of what 'challenging' means for those in charge of training.   METHOD The authors relied on visual methods for this research. In 2013, they collected 40 snapshots (i.e., data sets) from a purposeful sample of five faculty surgeons through a combination of interviews, observations, and drawing sessions. The analytical process involved three phases: analysis of each drawing, a compare-and-contrast analysis of multiple drawings, and a team analysis conducted in collaboration with three participating surgeons.   RESULTS Findings demonstrate that experts perceive the challenge of surgical situations to extend beyond their procedural dimensions to include unspoken, nonprocedural dimensions-specifically, team dynamics, trust, emotions, and external pressures.   CONCLUSIONS Findings show that analysis of surgeons' drawings is an effective means of gaining insight into surgeons' perceptions. The findings refine the common belief that procedural complexity is what makes a surgery challenging for expert surgeons. Focusing exclusively on the procedure during training may put trainees at risk of missing the 'big picture.' Understanding the multidimensionality of medical challenges and having a language to discuss these both verbally and visually will facilitate teaching around challenging situations.
BACKGROUND Performance measurement has become central to surgical practice. We systematically reviewed all endorsed performance measures from the National Quality Forum, the national clearing house for performance measures in health care, to identify measures relevant to surgical practice and describe measure stewardship, measure types, and identify gaps in measurement.   STUDY DESIGN Performance measures current to June 2014 were categorized by denominator statement as either assessing surgical practice in specific or as part of a mixed medical and surgical population. Measures were further classified by surgical specialty, Donabedian measure type, patients, disease and events targeted, reporting eligibility, and measure stewards.   RESULTS Of 637 measures, 123 measures assessed surgical performance in specific and 123 assessed surgical performance in aggregate. Physician societies (51 of 123, 41.5%) were more common than government agencies (32 of 123, 26.0%) among measure stewards for surgical measures, in particular, the Society for Thoracic Surgery (n혻= 32). Outcomes measures rather than process measures were common among surgical measures (62 of 123, 50.4%) compared with aggregate medical/surgical measures (46 of 123, 37.4%). Among outcomes measures, death alone was the most commonly specified outcome (24 of 62, 38.7%). Only 1 surgical measure addressed patient-centered care and only 1 measure addressed hospital readmission. We found 7 current surgical measures eligible for value-based purchasing.   CONCLUSIONS Surgical society stewards and outcomes measure types, particularly for cardiac surgery, were well represented in the National Quality Forum. Measures addressing patient-centered outcomes and the value of surgical decision-making were not well represented and may be suitable targets for measure innovation.
BACKGROUND Previous studies have suggested that there may be long-term harm associated with postoperative complications. Uncertainty exists however, because of the need for risk adjustment and inconsistent definitions of postoperative morbidity.   METHODS We did a longitudinal observational cohort study of patients undergoing major surgery. Case-mix adjustment was applied and morbidity was recorded using a validated outcome measure. Cox proportional hazards modelling using time-dependent covariates was used to measure the independent relationship between prolonged postoperative morbidity and longer term survival.   RESULTS Data were analysed for 1362 patients. The median length of stay was 9 days and the median follow-up time was 6.5 yr. Independent of perioperative risk, postoperative neurological morbidity (prevalence 2.9%) was associated with a relative hazard for long-term mortality of 2.00 [P=0.001; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.32-3.04]. Prolonged postoperative morbidity (prevalence 15.6%) conferred a relative hazard for death in the first 12 months after surgery of 3.51 (P<0.001; 95% CI 2.28-5.42) and for the next 2 yr of 2.44 (P<0.001; 95% CI 1.62-3.65), returning to baseline thereafter.   CONCLUSIONS Prolonged morbidity after surgery is associated with a risk of premature death for a longer duration than perhaps is commonly thought; however, this risk falls with time. We suggest that prolonged postoperative morbidity measured in this way may be a valid indicator of the quality of surgical healthcare. Our findings reinforce the importance of research and quality improvement initiatives aimed at reducing the duration and severity of postoperative complications.
OBJECTIVE Robotic surgical systems offer better workplace in order to relieve surgeons from prolonged physical efforts and improve their surgical outcomes. However, robotic surgery could produce musculoskeletal disorders due to the prolonged sitting position of the operator, the fixed position of the console viewer and the movements of the limbs. Until today, no one study has been reported concerning the association between robotics and musculoskeletal pain. The aim of this work was verify the prevalence of musculoskeletal disorders among Italian robotic surgeons.   MATERIAL AND METHODS Between July 2011 and April 2012 a modified Standardized Nordic Questionnaire was delivered to thirty-nine Italian robotic centres. Twentytwo surgeons (56%) returned the questionnaires but only seventeen questionnaires (43.5%) were evaluable.   RESULTS Seven surgeons (41.2%) reported musculoskeletal disorders, by since their first use of the robot which significantly persisted during the daily surgical activity (P &lt; 0.001). Regarding the body parts affected, musculoskeletal disorders were mainly reported in the cervical spine (29.4%) and in the upper limbs (23.5%). Six surgeons (35.3%) defined the robotic console as less comfortable or neither comfortable/uncomfortable with a negative influence on their surgical procedures.   CONCLUSIONS In spite of some important limitations, our data showed musculoskeletal disorders due to posture discomfort with negative impact on daily surgical activity among robotic surgeons. These aspects could be due to the lack of ergonomic seat and to the fixed position of the console viewer which could have produced an inadequate spinal posture. The evaluation of these postural factors, in particular the development of an integrated and more ergonomic chair, could further improve the comfort feeling of the surgeon at the console and probably his surgical outcomes.
BACKGROUND In general, there is a need for testing new interventions in large randomized controlled trials. Depending on the research question it may be advantageous to establish multicenter studies as a way of organizing clinical trials in order to increase study power.   MAIN OBJECTIVES The object of this study was to investigate the development in the organization of multicenter studies, the distribution of studies within different clinical specialties, across continents, and investigate the differences related to testing various interventions.   METHODS AND MATERIALS A literature search was done in MEDLINE for multicenter studies published in 1995, 2000, 2005, and 2010, respectively. Data extraction identified data related to clinical specialties, interventions, participating patients, departments, countries, and continents.   RESULTS The number of multicenter studies increased from 112 in 1995 to 1,273 in 2010, with a larger share of multicenter studies being performed in Europe and North America. The pharmacological interventions were primarily being tested in medical studies followed by the device tests predominantly in surgical studies. The number of included patients as well as the number of participating departments increased during the time span, though the increase in studies was most evident in Europe and North America compared with the rest of the world.
The medical malpractice is a rising and central topic for the forensic pathologist and forensic autopsies are a mandatory step in the judicial evaluation of the suspected medical malpractice. Reliable national and international registers about the medical malpractice are still missing and nowadays the necroscopic archives are therefore one of the best sources of data about such a complex phenomenon. We analyzed the archive of the Institute of Forensic Medicine of the Milan University from 1996 to 2009 and selected 317 lethal cases of suspected medical malpractice. The mean age of our cases was 60짹18 years for males and 58짹19 years for the females. In 70% of such cases the patient death occurred in a hospital setting. The first 24h of hospitalization turned out to be the hottest period for deaths followed by malpractice claims. The surgical branches were obviously the most involved, with abdominal surgery, orthopedics, neurosurgery and gynecology as the main contributors. Just 12% of the total amount of cases came from all the internistic branches put together. Non-hospital malpractice was typically caused by misdiagnosed myocardial infarctions and aortic ruptures. A full forensic report was present in 71 cases (all belonging to the 2007-2009 period): in 69% of cases the judicial autopsy revealed as a sufficient tool for diagnosing the cause of death; medical malpractice was confirmed in only 17% of the whole cases and a causal link between the ascertained malpractice and the patient death was recognized in only 12.7% cases.
BACKGROUND Evidence suggests that patient outcomes can be associated with the quality of surgical training. To raise the standards of surgical training, a tool to measure training quality is needed. The objective of this study was to define the elements of high-quality surgical training and methods to measure them.   STUDY DESIGN Modified Delphi methodology was used to achieve international expert consensus. Seventy statements about indicators and measures of training quality were developed based on themes from semi-structured interviews of surgeons. Eighty-three experts in surgical education from 13 countries were invited to complete an online survey ranking each statement on a 5-point Likert scale. Consensus was predefined as Cronbach's 慣 0.80. Once consensus was achieved, statements ranked 4 by 80% of experts were used as themes to develop the Surgical Training Quality Assessment Tool (S-QAT).   RESULTS Fifty-three (64%) experts from 11 countries responded. Consensus was achieved after 2 rounds of voting (Cronbach's 慣혻= 0.930). Thirty-five statements were selected as themes for the Surgical Training Quality Assessment Tool. Statements defining training quality covered the following subjects: relationship between the trainer and trainee, operative exposure, supervision, feedback, structure and organization, and structured teaching programs. Consensus statements on measuring training quality included trainee feedback, trainer feedback, timetable structure, and trainee improvement. There was agreement that measuring training quality would have a positive effect on training.   CONCLUSIONS International expert consensus was achieved on defining and measuring high-quality surgical training. This has been translated into the (S-QAT) to evaluate surgical training programs. Competition created by comparing training quality might raise the standards of surgical education.
INTRODUCTION Ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration cytology (US-FNAC) of thyroid nodules is an important diagnostic procedure. In most hospitals, patients are referred to radiologists for US-FNAC, but this often results in a long waiting time before results are available. Surgeon-performed US-FNAC (SP-US-FNAC) during the initial patient consultation attempts to reduce the waiting time but it is not known whether this is as accurate as radiologist-performed US-FNAC (RP-US-FNAC). The aim of this study is to compare the clinical efficiency between SP-US-FNAC and RP-US-FNAC.   MATERIALS AND METHODS A retrospective study was performed on patients from the Department of General Surgery, Tan Tock Seng Hospital (TTSH) who underwent an US-FNAC from August 2011 to May 2012. All cases of SP-US-FNAC were performed by a single surgeon. This study compared the rates of positive diagnoses achieved by SP-US-FNAC and RPUS- FNAC as well as the time interval to reach a cytological diagnosis by each group.   RESULTS A total of 40 cases of SP-US-FNAC and 72 cases of RP-US-FNAC were included in the study. SP-US-FNAC resulted in 28 (70%) positive diagnoses and 12 (30%) nondiagnoses while RP-US-FNAC resulted in 47 (65.3%) positive diagnoses and 25 (34.7%) non-diagnoses. These results were comparable (P=0.678). The median time taken to reach a cytological diagnosis was 1 working day for SP-US-FNAC and 29.5 working days for RP-US-FNAC resulting in a shorter interval to reaching a cytological diagnosis for SP-US-FNAC (P<0.001).   CONCLUSION In the workup of thyroid nodules, SP-US-FNAC is as accurate as RP-US-FNAC but significantly reduces the time taken to reach a cytological diagnosis. This leads to greater clinical efficiency in the management of patients with thyroid nodules, which in turn leads to other benefits such as decreased patient anxiety and increased patient satisfaction.
Pleural infection is a major problem that affects 80,000 cases per year in the UK and USA. It is increasing in incidence, and in an ageing population, it presents a complex challenge that requires a combination of medical therapies and may lead to the need for surgery. This article focuses on the role of the interventional pulmonologist in the diagnosis and management of pleural infection. In particular, we examine the role of pleural ultrasound in diagnostics, thoracocentesis and real-time guided procedures, and the current management strategies, including the controversial role of medical thoracoscopy.
The world of cardiothoracic surgery lost a friend and remarkable colleague on May 9, 2016. Robert L. Replogle, the 31st President of The Society of Thoracic Surgeons, died at the University of Chicago Medical Center after a brief illness, surrounded by his loving family. Known to his friends as 'Rep,' he will be remembered as an excellent pediatric and adult cardiac surgeon and as a visionary leader.
BACKGROUND There have been many efforts to increase the number of women surgeons. We provide an update of women surgeon representation along the pathway to surgical academia.   METHODS Data was extracted from Association of American Medical Colleges FACTS and Faculty Administrative Management Online User System as well as GME annual reports starting in 1994 until the last year available for each.   RESULTS The proportion of graduating women medical students has increased on average .5% per year from 1994 to 2014. Women general surgery trainees have more than doubled in number over the same period but represented 38.3% of all general surgery trainees in 2014. Women Full Professors increased on average .3% from 1994 to 2015 but still make up less than 10% of all Full Professors.   CONCLUSIONS Despite improvements over the past 20혻years, there are still large gender gaps in surgery for trainees and academic leadership. At the current rate of increase, women Full Professors will not achieve gender parity until in 2136.
Consultant Outcomes Publication (COP) has the longest history in cardiothoracic surgery, where it was introduced in 2005. Subsequently COP has been broadened to include all surgical specialties in NHS England in 2013-14. The Association of Surgeons in Training (ASiT) fully supports efforts to improve patient care and trust in the profession and is keen to overcome potential unintended adverse effects of COP. Identification of these adverse effects is the first step in this process: Firstly, there is a risk that COP may lead to reluctance by consultants to provide trainees with the necessary appropriate primary operator experience to become skilled consultant surgeons for the future. Secondly, COP may lead to inappropriately cautious case selection. This adjusted case mix affects both patients who are denied operations, and also limits the complexity of the case mix to which surgical trainees are exposed. Thirdly, COP undermines efforts to train surgical trainees in non-technical skills and human factors, simply obliterating the critical role of the multidisciplinary team and organisational processes in determining outcomes. This tunnel vision masks opportunities to improve patient care and outcomes at a unit level. It also misinforms the public as to the root causes of adverse events by failing to identify care process deficiencies. Finally, for safe surgical care, graduate retention and morale is important - COP may lead to high calibre trainees opting out of surgical careers, or opting to work abroad. The negative effects of COP on surgical training and trainees must be addressed as high quality surgical training and retention of high calibre graduates is essential for excellent patient care.
The General Medical Council (GMC) has conducted a consultation process on its proposals for 'credentialing' in postgraduate medical practice in the UK. It has been suggested that these may be used to provide formal accreditation of a doctor's competency in a certain area of practice. There are 5 main issues being consulted upon: (a) the time point in a doctor's career at which credentialing should be undertaken, (b) the scope of practice that should be included in credentials and whether this should include any competency already accredited by a Certificate of Completion of Training, (c) the funding source for the credentialing process, (d) the bodies that are entitled to award a credential, and (e) who exactly should be eligible for a credential. The Association of Surgeons in Training has commented on each issue and made recommendations to the GMC. One area of practice that has already begun a regulation process is Cosmetic Surgery, in response to the lack of defined standards and a clear training pathway. Both the GMC and Royal College of Surgeons of England have now published standards in this area and will come into effect in 2016. The impact of these on surgical training is discussed.
BACKGROUND There is an increased desire among patients and families to be involved in the surgical decision-making process. A surgeon's ability to provide patients and families with patient-specific estimates of postoperative complications is critical for shared decision making and informed consent. Surgeons can also use patient-specific risk estimates to decide whether or not to operate and what options to offer patients. Our objective was to develop and evaluate a publicly available risk estimation tool that would cover many common pediatric surgical procedures across all specialties.   STUDY DESIGN American College of Surgeons NSQIP Pediatric standardized data from 67 hospitals were used to develop a risk estimation tool. Surgeons enter 18 preoperative variables (demographics, comorbidities, procedure) that are used in a logistic regression model to predict 9 postoperative outcomes. A surgeon adjustment score is also incorporated to adjust for any additional risk not accounted for in the 18 risk factors.   RESULTS A pediatric surgical risk calculator was developed based on 181,353 cases covering 382 CPT codes across all specialties. It had excellent discrimination for mortality (c-statistic혻= 0.98), morbidity (c-statistic혻= 0.81), and 7 additional complications (c-statistic > 0.77). The Hosmer-Lemeshow statistic and graphic representations also showed excellent calibration.   CONCLUSIONS The ACS NSQIP Pediatric Surgical Risk Calculator was developed using standardized and audited multi-institutional data from the ACS NSQIP Pediatric, and it provides empirically derived, patient-specific postoperative risks. It can be used as a tool in the shared decision-making process by providing clinicians, families, and patients with useful information for many of the most common operations performed on pediatric patients in the US.
Surgeons frequently report frustration and loss of efficiency with electronic medical record (EMR) systems. Together, surgery residents and a programmer at Augusta University created a rounds report (RR) summarizing 24 hours of vitals, intake/output, labs, and other values for each inpatient that were previously transcribed by hand. The objective of this study was to evaluate the RR's effect on surgery residents. Surgery residents were queried to assess the RR's impact. Outcome measures were time spent preparing for rounds, direct patient care time, educational activity time, rates of incorrect/incomplete data on rounds, and rate of duty hour violations. Hospital wide, 17,200 RRs were generated in the 1-month study. Twenty-three surgery residents participated. Time spent preparing for rounds decreased per floor patient (15.6 짹 3.0 vs 6.0 짹 1.2, P < 0.0001) and per intensive care unit patient (19.9 짹 2.9 vs 7.5 짹 1.2 P < 0.0001). The work day spent in direct patient care increased from 45.1 짹 5.6 to 54.0 짹 5.7 per cent (P = 0.0044). Educational activity time increased from 35.2 짹 5.4 to 54.7 짹 7.1 minutes per resident per day (P = 0.0004). Reported duty hour violations decreased 58 per cent (P < 0.0001). American Board of Surgery in Training exam scores trended up, and estimates of departmental annual financial savings range from $66,598 to $273,141 per year. Significant improvements occur with surgeon designed EMR tools like the RR. Hospitals and EMR companies should pair interested surgeons with health information technology developers to facilitate EMR enhancements. Improvements like RRs can have broad ranging, multidisciplinary impact and should be standard in all EMRs used for inpatient care at academic medical centers.
OBJECTIVE The Arnold P. Gold Humanism and Excellence in Teaching Awards are given by medical students to residents. The aim of this study is to evaluate the distribution of this award based on residency specialty. The hypothesis is that surgical residents more commonly receive this award.   METHODS This was a retrospective study from 2004 to 2013. All award recipients were obtained from the Arnold P. Gold Foundation website. The specialties of award recipients were tabulated. The number of award winners per thousand specialty residents was estimated using the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education Data Resource Book, adjusting for the number of awarding schools and resident specialties. All statistics used an 慣 = 0.05.   RESULTS There were 2489 awards given during the study period, with 52.6% in medical specialties and 47.4% in surgical specialties (p = 0.45). The specialties most commonly awarded were General Surgery (22.3%), Internal Medicine (20.9%), and Obstetrics/Gynecology (20.4%). Adjusting for the number of eligible residents, there were 59.9 awards/1000 Obstetrics/Gynecology residents, 43.1 awards/1000 General Surgery residents, and 20.2 awards/1000 Internal Medicine residents (p < 0.001).   CONCLUSION Controlling for the number of eligible residents, the Arnold P. Gold Humanism and Excellence in Teaching Awards are more commonly given to surgical specialty residents.
PURPOSE Pediatric surgical care is deficient in developing countries disrupted by crisis. We aimed to describe pediatric surgical care at M챕decins Sans Fronti챔res-Brussels (MSF-OCB) projects to inform resource allocation and define the pediatric-specific skillset necessary for humanitarian surgical teams.   METHODS Procedures performed by MSF-OCB from July 2008 to December 2014 were reviewed. Project characteristics, patient demographics and clinical data were described. Multivariable logistic regression was performed to determine predictors of perioperative death.   RESULTS Of 109,828 procedures, 26,284 were performed for 24,576 children (22% of all procedures). The most common pediatric operative indication was trauma (13,984; 57%). Nine percent of all surgical indications were due to violence (e.g., land mines, firearms, gender-based violence, etc.). The majority of procedures (19,582; 75%) were general surgical, followed by orthopedic (4350; 17%), and obstetric/gynecologic/urologic (2135; 8%). Perioperative death was low (42; 0.17%); independent predictors of death included age <1year, use of general anesthesia with a definitive airway, and operation during conflict.   CONCLUSION Surgical care for children comprised nearly a quarter of all procedures performed by MSF-OCB between 2008 and 2014. Attention to trauma surgery and infant perioperative care is particularly needed. These findings are important when resourcing projects and training surgical staff for humanitarian missions.
BACKGROUND We analyzed the demographics of high-volume surgeons (HVS) for endocrine operations.   METHODS We characterized HVS by region, specialty, gender, teaching-affiliation, American Association of Endocrine Surgeons (AAES) membership, and decade they entered practice. Providers were general surgeons (GS) and otolaryngologists (ENT); fellowship trained (FT) or not FT (NFT).   RESULTS We identified 395 HVS in 47 states entering practice between 1958 and 2011. Sixty-eight percent were GS, 35% were FT, and 35% were AAES members. GS, FT surgeons, and endocrine surgery FT surgeons (ES) performed more operations per surgeon. More FT surgeons were in Northeast, West (W), and Midwest than Southeast (SE) and Southwest (SW; P < .0001). More teaching surgeons and AAES members were in the Northeast and Midwest than SE, W, and SW (P < .0001). FT-GS increased over decades (P < .0001) but not FT-ENT (P = .3). Representation of ES, AAES members, and females increased over decades (P < .0001).   CONCLUSION The workforce for endocrine operations displayed increased representation of GS, FT surgeons, and women, correlating with the profile of recent AAES fellowship graduates. More insight is needed to understand why most HVS were not AAES members. Regional disparities can guide the placement of endocrine surgeons into both academic and community practices, increasing trainee exposure and patient access to specialty care.
INTRODUCTION Specialty choice made by medical students takes into account the nature of future medical practice. Holland's congruence theory, according to which career choice is treated as an expression of personality characteristics common for all representatives of the same profession, has served as a theoretical background for own research on the subject matter. Spectacular exemplification of fit between mental resources--personality characteristics and working environment requirements, is the concept of distinct surgical personality (DSP), widely discussed in worldwide literature of the subject (although not in native one). The article offers an author's broadened perception of DSP conception encompassing not only personality characteristics, but also values preference.   AIM The research aims at verifying the hypothesis that a given personality constellation directs the choice of surgery as a prospective specialty made by medical students, as well as allows predicting the style of future vocational practice, characterized by dominant instrumental activities, with little emphasis on affective medical actions, typical for technique-oriented specialties.   MATERIALS AND METHODS The study involved a total of 223 students of fourth year of medical studies at Medical University of Lublin. Students declaring their choice of surgical specialty constituted the criterion group (N = 93). The control group comprised of students who declared their choice of person-oriented specialties, aimed at work with patient approached holistically (N = 75), in accordance with dichotomous specialty division adopted for the research purposes. Polish adaptations of NEO Five-Factor Inventory (NEO-FFI) by Costa and McCrae and Schwartz Value Survey were applied.   RESULTS The use of multivariate logistic regression indicates three crucial predictions of surgical specialty choice: 'neuroticism' and 'agreeableness' (personality trials-negative predictors) and 'self-enhancement' (value meta-category - positive predictors), however the latter variable has the strongest impact on the choice. The tested model comprising both personality characteristics and allows proper classification of 85% respondents declaring their surgical choice.   CONCLUSION Personality constellation of prospective surgical adepts appears to be a coherent and strong predictors of medical practice style characteristic for surgery--with strong biotechnical orientation, and predisposition to building paternalistic relations with patients in interpersonal layer. The personality of surgeons-to-be corresponds with functional requirements of surgical treatment, nevertheless their readiness to adequate reaction on non-medical patients' needs requires designing educational process so that it activates values complementary to 'power' and 'achievement', mainly 'universalism', viewed as perceiving others as equal to self.
The Match was developed in response to a chaotic residency selection process. While the match has remained relatively unchanged since it was introduced, the number of medical school graduates has increased at a rate outpacing the number of residency positions leading to a more competitive process for applicants. In May 2014, an 18-question mixed-response questionnaire was distributed to fourth year allopathic medical students via an E-mail distribution list for student affairs representatives. The individual surveys were accessible via SurveyMonkey and available for completion over the course of a 4-week period. Approximately 65.1 per cent of students performed at least one audition rotation and documented average expenditures of $2494 on housing, food, and transportation. The average applicant applied to 32 programs and attended 12 interviews while spending $4420 on the interview trail. Applicants for surgical programs applied to approximately 42 programs and attended 13 interviews compared with primary care applicants who averaged 23 programs (P < 0.001) and attended 12 interviews (P = 0.002). Surgical applicants averaged 20 days on the interview trail while spending $5500 ($423/interview) on housing, food, and transportation compared with primary care applicants averaged 19 days away from home (P < 0.05) and spending $3400 ($283/interview) on these same items (P < 0.001). The findings in our study indicate that the 'Match process' contributes to the financial burden of graduating medical students and it is more expensive and time consuming for the candidates interested in surgical specialties.
Early in their careers, many new surgeons lack the background and experience to understand essential components needed to build a surgical practice. Surgical resident education is often devoid of specific instruction on the business of medicine and practice management. In particular, hepatobiliary and pancreatic (HPB) surgeons require many key components to build a successful practice secondary to significant interdisciplinary coordination and a scope of complex surgery, which spans challenging benign and malignant disease processes. In the following, we describe the required clinical and financial components for developing a successful HPB surgery practice in the nonuniversity tertiary care center. We discuss significant financial considerations for understanding community need and hospital investment, contract establishment, billing, and coding. We summarize the structural elements and key personnel necessary for establishing an effectual HPB surgical team. This article provides useful, essential information for a new HPB surgeon looking to establish a surgical practice. It also provides insight for health-care administrators as to the value an HPB surgeon can bring to a hospital or health-care system.
BACKGROUND The relationships between industry and medical professionals are controversial. The purpose of our study was to evaluate surgeons' current opinions regarding the industry-surgery partnership, in addition to self-reported industry ties.   METHODS After institutional review board approval, a survey was sent via RedCap to 3,782 surgeons across the United States. Univariate and multivariable regression analyses were performed to evaluate the responses.   RESULTS The response rate was 23%. From the 822 responders, 226 (27%) reported at least one current relationship with industry, while 297 (36.1%) had at least one such relationship within the past 3혻years. There was no difference between general surgery versus other surgical specialties (P혻=혻.5). Among the general surgery subspecialties, respondents in minimally invasive surgery/foregut had greater ties to industry compared to other subspecialties (P혻=혻.001). In addition, midcareer surgeons, male sex, and being on a reviewer/editorial board were associated with having industry ties (P혻<혻.05). Most surgeons (71%) believed that the relationships with industry are important for innovation.   CONCLUSION Our study showed that relationships between surgeons and industry are common, because more than a quarter of our responders reported at least one current relationship. Industry relations are perceived as necessary for operative innovation.
BACKGROUND Over the last decade, our institution has experienced a relative increase in the number of mundane cases, such as appendectomy and incision and drainage of abscess, versus index (complex) cases. We sought to determine if this trend is present at the national level.   METHODS A retrospective review of surgical case volume at 36 freestanding children's hospitals was performed between January 2004 and December 2013 using the Pediatric Health Information System (PHIS) database. Procedures were classified as 'mundane' or 'index', and 10 procedures of each type were selected for analysis. Results were reported as a percentage of total cases. Statistical analysis of linear trends was performed with the Mann-Kendall test.   RESULTS Overall, index procedures had a significant downward trend (p<0.01), whereas mundane procedures had a significant upward trend (p<0.01). Individually, 5 mundane procedures had significant upward trends, and 3 had downward trends. Five index procedures had significant downward trends, and none had an upward trend.   CONCLUSION The field of pediatric surgery is undergoing change with mundane procedures constituting an increasing proportion of the surgical caseload, while complex procedures are proportionately decreasing. These trends may be useful to inform decisions regarding future pediatric surgery workforce planning.
BACKGROUND Surgical education is becoming competency-based with the implementation of in-training milestones. Training guidelines should reflect these changes and determine the specific procedures for such milestone assessments. This study aimed to develop a consensus view regarding operative procedures and tasks considered appropriate for junior and senior trainees, and the procedures that can be used as technical milestone assessments for trainee progression in general surgery.   METHODS A Delphi process was followed where questionnaires were distributed to all 17 Canadian general surgery programme directors. Items were ranked on a 5-point Likert scale, with consensus defined as Cronbach's 慣 of at least 0쨌70. Items rated 4 or above on the 5-point Likert scale by 80 per cent of the programme directors were included in the models.   RESULTS Two Delphi rounds were completed, with 14 programme directors taking part in round one and 11 in round two. The overall consensus was high (Cronbach's 慣=0쨌98). The training model included 101 unique procedures and tasks, 24 specific to junior trainees, 68 specific to senior trainees, and nine appropriate to all. The assessment model included four procedures.   CONCLUSION A system of operative procedures and tasks for junior- and senior-level trainees has been developed along with an assessment model for trainee progression. These can be used as milestones in competency-based assessments.
BACKGROUND Training of foreign medical graduates in surgical oncology is an undervalued intervention for improving global cancer care. The aim of this work was to describe the design and results of a clinical training program for international surgeons from a single comprehensive cancer center.   STUDY DESIGN Of 39 international fellows trained during 20 years, 34 were surveyed about education, research, and current context of surgical practice. A citation and H-index calculation (ie h혻number of publications that each has at least h citations) was performed to assess scientific productivity of each graduated fellow.   RESULTS Twenty-one of 39 (54%) fellows came from countries in which English is not the primary language. Europe was the continent with the most graduates (17 of 39 [43%]), and only 5 of 39 (13%) were from Latin America. Three of 39 (8%) were women. Thirty-one of 39 graduated fellows (80%) returned to their countries of origin. The survey response rate was 73% (25 of 34). Seventeen of twenty-five (68%) work in an academic setting and 13 (52%) reported surgical oncology as their main clinical practice. Total number of citations and H-index are homogeneous among the different regions from which the fellows originated, with a median of 165 citations and median H-index of혻5.   CONCLUSIONS The International General Surgical Oncology Fellowship has successfully trained foreign surgeons for academic practice in surgical oncology. Most of the graduates have returned to their country of origin and contributed to education and research there.
BACKGROUND Mandates for improved patient safety and increasing work hour restrictions have resulted in changes in surgical education. Educational courses increasingly must meet those needs. We sought to determine the experience, skill level, and the impact of simulation-based education (SBE) on two cohorts of pediatric surgery trainees.   MATERIALS AND METHODS After Institutional Review Board (IRB) exempt determination, a retrospective review was performed of evaluations for an annual advanced minimally invasive surgery (MIS) course over 2 consecutive years. The courses included didactic content and hands-on skills training. Simulation included neonatal/infant models for rigid bronchoscopy-airway foreign body retrieval, laparoscopic common bile duct exploration, and real tissue diaphragmatic hernia (DH), duodenal atresia (DA), pulmonary lobectomy, and tracheoesophageal fistula models. Categorical data were analyzed with chi-squared analyses with t-tests for continuous data.   RESULTS Participants had limited prior advanced neonatal MIS experience, with 1.95됀기2.84 and 1.16됀기1.54 prior cases in the 2014 and 2015 cohorts, respectively. The 2015 cohort had significantly less previous experience in lobectomy (P=.04) and overall advanced MIS (P=.007). Before both courses, a significant percentage of participants were not comfortable with DH repair (39%-42%), DA repair (50%-74%), lobectomy (34%-43%), and tracheoesophageal fistula repair (54%-81%). After course completion, >60% of participants reported improvement in comfort with procedures and over 90% reported that the course significantly improved their perceived ability to perform each operation safely.   CONCLUSION Pediatric surgery trainees continue to have limited exposure to advanced MIS during clinical training. SBE results in significant improvement in both cognitive knowledge and trainee comfort with safe operative techniques for advanced MIS.
OBJECTIVE We aimed to evaluate variations in patient experience measures across different surgical specialties and to assess the impact of further case-mix adjustment.   BACKGROUND Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (HCAHPS) is a publicly reported survey of patients' hospital experiences that directly influence Medicare reimbursement.   METHODS All adult surgical inpatients meeting criteria for HCAHPS sampling from 2013 to 2014 at a single academic center were identified. HCAHPS measures were analyzed according to published top-box and Star-rating methodologies, and were dichotomized ('high' vs 'low'). Multivariable logistic regression was used to identify independent associations of high patient scores on various HCAHPS measures with specialty, diagnosis-related group complexity, cancer diagnosis, sex, and emergency admission after adjusting for HCAHPS case-mix adjusters (education, overall health status, language, and age).   RESULTS We identified 36,551 eligible patients, of which 30.8% (n = 11,273) completed HCAHPS. Women [odds ratio (OR) 0.78, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.72-0.85, P < 0.001], complex cases (OR 0.90, 95% CI 0.82-0.99, P = 0.02), and emergency admissions (OR 0.67, 95% CI 0.55-0.82, P < 0.001) had lesser Star scores on adjusted analysis, whereas patients with a cancer diagnosis had greater Star scores (OR 1.15, 95% CI 1.03-1.29, P = 0.01). Using general surgery as the reference, the Star scores varied significantly across 12 specialties (range OR 0.65 for plastics to 1.29 for transplant surgery). Patient responses to individual composite scores (pain, care transition, physician, and nurse) varied by specialty.   CONCLUSIONS HCAHPS case-mix adjustment does not include adjustment for specialty or diagnosis, which may result in artificially lower scores for centers that provide a high level of complex care. Further research is needed to ensure that the HCAHPS is an unbiased comparison tool.
BACKGROUND Although interest in practicing surgery in resource-constrained settings is on the rise among graduating US surgical residents, there is ongoing debate about an optimal humanitarian skill set for surgeons who chose to work in such settings. In addition, increased emphasis on general surgery case exposure at the cost of specialty surgery case exposure has been documented and may have a negative impact on the breadth of resident training. Review of general surgery resident case logs to gauge experience in specialty surgery may provide insight into residents' readiness for work in resource-limited settings.   METHODS We compared Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education general surgery resident case logs from 2004 to 2014 for operations thought to be essential for working in resource-constrained settings. These operations were chosen from published literature on this topic and authors' personal experience. Case numbers for specialty operations were compared by unpaired t-test analysis between the two periods.   RESULTS Case averages in pediatric, genitourinary, and gynecologic surgery decreased significantly from 2004 to 2014 (range, 27%-46%). Orthopedic surgery case averages were unchanged, and plastic and general abdominal surgery case averages increased (range, 47%-50%).   CONCLUSIONS Case mix among graduating US surgical residents has narrowed over the past 10혻y. Resident experience in a variety of specialty fields, thought to be essential in resource-constrained settings, decreased markedly over the study period. Residents who intend to work in resource-constrained settings may need to craft individualized residency experiences or pursue postgraduate training in specialty surgery courses to best prepare for such work.
BACKGROUND Discharge summaries after hospitalization provide the most reliable description and implications of the hospitalization. A concise discharge summary is crucial for maintaining continuity of care through the transition from inpatient to ambulatory care. Discharge summaries often lack information and are imprecise. Errors and insufficient recommendations regarding changes in the medical regimen may harm the patient's health and may result in readmission.   OBJECTIVES To evaluate a quality improvement model and training program for writing postoperative discharge summaries for three surgical procedures.   METHODS Medical records and surgical discharge summaries were reviewed and scored. Essential points for communication between surgeons and family physicians were included in automated forms. Staff was briefed twice regarding required summary contents with an interim evaluation. Changes in quality were evaluated.   RESULTS Summaries from 61 cholecystectomies, 42 hernioplasties and 45 colectomies were reviewed. The average quality score of all discharge summaries increased from 72.1 to 78.3 after the first intervention (P < 0.0005) to 81.0 following the second intervention. As the discharge summary's quality improved, its length decreased significantly.   CONCLUSIONS Discharge summaries lack important information and are too long. Developing a model for discharge summaries and instructing surgical staff regarding their contents resulted in measurable improvement. Frequent interventions and supervision are needed to maintain the quality of the surgical discharge summary.
The personality and the achievements of Professor Dr. F챕licien M. Steichen, who was born in Luxembourg (10.13.1926) and died in Brignogan-Plages, France (6.27.2011) are brought into focus. His was a most distinguished career devoted to surgery, research, teaching and writing in Baltimore, Pittsburgh and New York. He will be remembered above all for his contributions to stapling in thoracic and abdominal surgery and to minimally invasive surgery.
BACKGROUND Meta-analyses are useful tools for summarizing surgical evidence as they aim to encompass multiple sources of information on a particular research question, but they may be prone to methodological and reporting biases. We evaluated the conduct and reporting of meta-analyses of surgical interventions.   METHODS AND FINDINGS We performed a systematic review of 150 meta-analyses of randomized trials of surgical interventions published between January 2010 and June 2011. A comprehensive search strategy was executed using MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. Data were independently extracted by 2 authors using the PRISMA statement (preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses, a standardized quality of reporting guideline) and AMSTAR (a tool for methodological quality). Descriptive statistics were used for individual items, and as a measure of overall compliance, PRISMA and AMSTAR scores were calculated as the sum of adequately reported domains. A median of 8 trials (interquartile range = 8) was included in each meta-analysis. One third of all meta-analyses had an author with a background in epidemiology and/or statistics. Forty-four percent were published in PRISMA-endorsing journals with a median impact factor of 3.5. There was moderate compliance with PRISMA, with an average of 71% of items reported, but poorer compliance with AMSTAR, with 48% of items adequately described, on average.   CONCLUSIONS Substantial gaps in the conduct and reporting of meta-analyses within the surgical literature exist, mainly in the specification of aims and/or objectives, the use of preplanned protocols, and the evaluation of potential bias at the review (rather than trial) level. Editorial insistence on using reporting guidelines would improve this situation.
Outcome measurement is becoming increasingly important in hand surgery. The International classification of functioning, disability and health (ICF), is a WHO multi-dimensional approach to health condition including three domains: body 'functions and structures', activities and participation. The aim of this study was to measure how often these three ICF domains were included in outcome measurements of the clinical series published in the American, European and French hand surgery journals. Our study included clinical series published in 2007 and 2012 in the American Journal Of Hand Surgery, European Journal Of Hand Surgery and Chirurgie de la Main. Analysis of each of these publications was done in two steps. First, we checked the presence or absence of the three domains of ICF in outcome measurement without considering the way it was measured. Then, we reported the use of evaluation instruments and/or quantitative measurement for each domain. We included 54 series in 2007 and 119 in 2012. The number of series reporting on the three domains and using at least one quantitative measurement for each domain represents 6% of articles in 2007 and 10% in 2012. This study shows that the quality of outcome measurement has improved over these 5 years, but remains poor according to the ICF recommendation.
BACKGROUND Disparities in breast cancer incidence and outcome between African American and white American women are multifactorial in etiology. The increased frequency of triple-negative breast cancers (TNBC) in African American patients suggests the possible contribution of hereditary factors related to African ancestry.   METHODS The University of Michigan (UM)-Komfo Anoyke Teaching Hospital (KATH) Breast Cancer Research Collaborative and International Breast Registry was established in 2004. It features epidemiologic information, tumor tissue, and germline DNA specimens from African American, white American, and Ghanaian women.   RESULTS This research collaborative has generated valuable findings regarding the pathogenesis and patterns of TNBC while concomitantly improving the standard of breast oncology care in Ghana. This partnership has also yielded important opportunities for academic and educational exchange. It has expanded to involve other sites in Africa and Haiti.   CONCLUSIONS The UM-KATH collaborative is a model for demonstrating the research and academic exchange value of international partnerships.
BACKGROUND In France, attempts to define common ground during spine surgery meetings have revealed significant variability in clinical practices across different schools of surgery and the two specialities involved in spine surgery, namely, neurosurgery and orthopaedic surgery.   OBJECTIVES To objectively characterise this variability by performing a survey based on a fictitious spine trauma case. Our working hypothesis was that significant variability existed in trauma practices and that this variability was related to a lack of strong scientific evidence in spine trauma care.   METHODS We performed a cross-sectional survey based on a clinical vignette describing a 31-year-old male with an L1 burst fracture and neurologic symptoms (numbness). Surgeons received the vignette and a 14-item questionnaire on the management of this patient. For each question, surgeons had to choose among five possible answers. Differences in answers across surgeons were assessed using the Index of Qualitative Variability (IQV), in which 0 indicates no variability and 1 maximal variability. Surgeons also received a questionnaire about their demographics and surgical experience.   RESULTS Of 405 invited spine surgeons, 200 responded to the survey. Five questions had an IQV greater than 0.9, seven an IQV between 0.5 and 0.9, and two an IQV lower than 0.5. Variability was greatest about the need for MRI (IQV=0.93), degree of urgency (IQV=0.93), need for fusion (IQV=0.92), need for post-operative bracing (IQV=0.91), and routine removal of instrumentation (IQV=0.94). Variability was lowest for questions about the need for surgery (IQV=0.42) and use of the posterior approach (IQV=0.36). Answers were influenced by surgeon specialty, age, experience level, and type of centre.   CONCLUSION Clinical practice regarding spine trauma varies widely in France. Little published evidence is available on which to base recommendations that would diminish this variability.
In the 50 years since the first edition of this journal, operative paediatric surgery has undergone radical change. Many of the most common instruments are unchanged, both as a testament to their utility and in recognition of past surgeons remembered eponymously. Surrounding that basic core of instruments, theatre has changed radically as new tools and techniques have arisen. Surgeons have come down from their pedestals, recognising surgery as a team sport rather than a solo performance. More than half of the current paediatric surgical trainees are women, a higher proportion than in any other craft group of the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons. The appearance, and rapid development, of laparoscopy is to many observers the most notable change in surgery over the last 50 years. Placed in its context though, it is simply the most prominent example of a frameshift in surgical thinking. The patient as a whole is now the focus, rather than just the disease. Recent developments are as much about minimising harm to normal tissues as they are about extirpating pathology. As a surgical maxim, 'Primum non nocere' is even more in evidence in 2015 than it was in 1965.
OBJECTIVE This study aims to investigate the current opinion of gastroenterologists and surgeons on treatment strategies for patients, with recurrences or ongoing complaints of diverticulitis.   BACKGROUND Treatment of recurrences and ongoing complaints remains a point of debate. No randomized trials have been published yet and guidelines are not uniform in their advice.   DESIGN A web-based survey was conducted among gastroenterologists and GE-surgeons. Questions were aimed at the treatment options for recurrent diverticulitis and ongoing complaints.   RESULTS In total, 123 surveys were filled out. The number of patients with recurrent or ongoing diverticulitis who were seen at the outpatient clinic each year was 7 (0-30) and 5 (0-115) respectively. Surgeons see significantly more patients on an annual basis 20 vs. 15% (p = 0.00). Both surgeons and gastroenterologists preferred to treat patients in a conservative manner using pain medication and lifestyle advise (64.4 vs. 54.0, p = 0.27); however, gastroenterologists would treat patients with mesalazine medication, which is significantly more (28%, p = 0.04) than in the surgical group. Surgeons are inclined more towards surgery (31.5%, p = 0.02).   CONCLUSIONS Both surgeons and gastroenterologists prefer to treat recurrent diverticulitis and ongoing complaints in a conservative manner. Quality of life, the risk of complications and the viewpoint of the patient are considered important factors in the decision to resect the affected colon.
IMPORTANCE The American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS NSQIP) serves the need for continual quality assessment in general surgery. Previously, no parallel mechanism specific to head and neck oncologic surgery existed.   OBJECTIVE To address the need for continual quality assessment in subspecialty surgery by adapting the ACS NSQIP platform for complex head and neck oncologic surgical procedures.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS With an institutional ACS NSQIP team's guidance, surgeons from the departments of head and neck surgery and plastic and reconstructive surgery developed disease- and procedure-specific preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative variables specific to head and neck surgery requiring reconstruction. Collection occurred with 100% sampling and standard ACS NSQIP 30-day follow-up. After a pilot period, long-term functional outcomes were added to this platform. A total of 312 patients underwent head and neck surgery requiring reconstruction at an academic medical center between August 1, 2012, and June 30, 2013.   EXPOSURES Development of a specialty-specific head and neck surgery ACS NSQIP platform.   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES The feasibility of adapting the ACS NSQIP platform to capture complex head and neck surgery metrics in all patients.   RESULTS Head and neck surgery-specific preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative variables were added to the ACS NSQIP platform and evaluated in 312 patients (201 [64.4%] male). Only 42 patients (13.5%) had no preoperative risk factors, and 136 (43.6%) had 3 or more risk factors. The mean (SD) duration of operation was 9.4 (3.0) hours (range, 1.7-19.3 hours). The mean (SD) postoperative length of stay was 7.9 (4.7) days (range, 1-40 days), 58 patients (18.6%) had an unplanned return to the operating room, 23 patients (7.4%) were readmitted within 30 days, and 3 patients (1.0%) died within 30 days. More than half of the patients (160 [51.3%]) did not experience a postoperative occurrence.   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE To our knowledge, this is the first comprehensive complex oncologic surgery outcomes platform derived from ACS NSQIP methods. The initial pilot demonstrates the ability to systematically capture head and neck surgery-specific variables with complete sampling. With multi-institutional expansion, increased accrual, and long-term patient-reported outcomes, we hope to set risk-adjusted benchmarks that may underpin quality improvement efforts in complex head and neck surgery.
BACKGROUND There are different views on the effects of resident involvement on surgical outcomes. We hypothesized that resident participation in surgical care does not appreciably alter outcomes.   STUDY DESIGN We analyzed an American College of Surgeons NSQIP subset of inpatients having procedures with high complexity, including 4 surgical specialties (general surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, neurosurgery, and vascular surgery) with the highest mean work relative value units. We evaluated surgical outcomes in patients having procedures performed by the attending surgeon alone, or by the attending surgeon with assistance from at least one surgical resident (PGY1 to PGY6). Outcomes measures included operative mortality, composite morbidity, and failure to rescue (FTR). Propensity-score matching minimized the effects of nonrandom assignment of residents to procedures.   RESULTS In 266,411 patients, unmatched comparisons showed significantly higher operative mortality and composite morbidity rates, but decreased FTR, in operations performed with resident involvement. After propensity-score matching, there were small but significant resident-related increases in composite morbidity, but significant improvement in FTR. Senior-level resident involvement translated into improved outcomes, especially in cardiothoracic surgery procedures where >63.6% of procedures had PGY6 resident involvement. Resident involvement attenuated the significant worsening of operative mortality and FTR associated with multiple serious complications in individual patients. Measures of resource use increased modestly with resident involvement.   CONCLUSIONS We found substantial improvement in FTR with resident involvement, both in unmatched and propensity-matched comparisons. Senior-level resident participation seemed to attenuate, and even improve, surgical outcomes, despite slightly increased resource use. These results provide some reassurance about teaching paradigms.
INTRODUCTION Nearly all trainee doctors would undertake a surgical placement in their clinical training; however, there is anecdotal evidence of variability in undergraduate surgical teaching across the UK. We set out to describe the provision of undergraduate surgery and report graduating students' opinions of aspects of this.   METHODS We undertook a cross-sectional questionnaire of medical students graduating in 2014 from UK medical schools. An online electronic questionnaire was used to capture demographics, career intentions, and individual's undergraduate experience of surgery. A separate questionnaire was sent to medical schools to assess time devoted to surgical placements and how surgical sciences were taught and assessed.   RESULTS From 483 responses covering 31 UK medical schools, there were 328 completed student questionnaires. A third of respondents felt that teaching of surgical sciences was inadequate. Medical schools reported time allocated to surgical specialties ranging from 4 to 21 weeks (median 13 weeks). Among all, 1 medical school offered a basic surgical skills course and 1 medical school specifically assessed surgical-related skills. Overall, 65% of medical students felt prepared for a surgical foundation placement and 88% felt prepared for a medical foundation placement. In total, 78% felt ready to participate in an acute medicine on-call and 48% felt ready for emergency surgery on-call. There was a positive association between time dedicated to undergraduate surgery and reported preparedness for a foundation surgical job.   CONCLUSIONS UK medical students reported uniformly low rates of satisfaction with surgical science teaching. Students studying at medical schools with more time in the curriculum dedicated to surgery reported higher levels of preparedness for surgical foundation jobs. There were differences in the rates of perceived preparedness for surgical posts and for emergency surgery. There is a clear need to review undergraduate surgical provision to ensure that students are equipped for safe practice in junior surgical foundation jobs.
OBJECTIVE Due to improved nutrition and early detection, myelomeningocele repair is a relatively uncommon procedure. Although previous studies have reviewed surgical trends and predictors of outcomes, they have relied largely on single-hospital experiences or on databases centered on hospital admission data. Here, the authors report 30-day outcomes of pediatric patients undergoing postnatal myelomeningocele repair from a national prospective surgical outcomes database. They sought to investigate the association between preoperative and intraoperative factors on the occurrence of 30-day complications, readmissions, and unplanned return to operating room events. METHODS The 2013 American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program Pediatric database (NSQIP-P) was queried for all patients undergoing postnatal myelomeningocele repair. Patients were subdivided on the basis of the size of the repair (< 5 cm vs > 5 cm). Preoperative variables, intraoperative characteristics, and postoperative 30-day events were tabulated from prospectively collected data. Three separate outcomes for complication, unplanned readmission, and return to the operating room were analyzed using univariate and multivariate logistic regression. Rates of associated CSF diversion operations and their timing were also analyzed. RESULTS A total of 114 patients were included; 54 had myelomeningocele repair for a defect size smaller than 5 cm, and 60 had repair for a defect size larger than 5 cm. CSF shunts were placed concurrently in 8% of the cases. There were 42 NSQIP-defined complications in 31 patients (27%); these included wound complications and infections, in addition to others. Postoperative wound complications were the most common and occurred in 27 patients (24%). Forty patients (35%) had at least one subsequent surgery within 30 days. Twenty-four patients (21%) returned to the operating room for initial shunt placement. Unplanned readmission occurred in 11% of cases. Both complication and return to operating room outcomes were statistically associated with age at repair. CONCLUSIONS The NSQIP-P allows examination of 30-day perioperative outcomes from a national prospectively collected database. In this cohort, over one-quarter of patients undergoing postnatal myelomeningocele repair experienced a complication within 30 days. The complication rate was significantly higher in patients who had surgical repair within the first 24 hours of birth than in patients who had surgery after the 1st day of life. The authors also highlight limitations of investigating myelomeningocele repair using NSQIP-P and advocate the importance of disease-specific data collection.
Foot and ankle abnormalities are common in Singapore because of the compulsory conscription, the slipper-wearing culture, and the promotion of healthy living through exercise. The rapidly aging population, lack of elite sportsmen, and social and cultural norms pose unique challenges to foot and ankle surgery. Orthopedic surgery in Singapore has progressed because of the good infrastructure and modern practices executed by fellowship-trained surgeons. Evolving local practices are polarized by practice trends emulated from North America and Europe. The small community of foot and ankle surgeons currently practicing in Singapore allows for easier communication, corroborative educational events, and research initiatives.
BACKGROUND The flipped classroom, a blended learning paradigm that uses pre-session online videos reinforced with interactive sessions, has been proposed as an alternative to traditional lectures. This article investigates medical students' perceptions of a simulation-based, flipped classroom for the surgery clerkship and suggests best practices for implementation in this setting.   METHODS A prospective cohort of students (n혻=혻89), who were enrolled in the surgery clerkship during a 1-year period, was taught via a simulation-based, flipped classroom approach. Students completed an anonymous, end-of-clerkship survey regarding their perceptions of the curriculum. Quantitative analysis of Likert responses and qualitative analysis of narrative responses were performed.   RESULTS Students' perceptions of the curriculum were positive, with 90% rating it excellent or outstanding. The majority reported the curriculum should be continued (95%) and applied to other clerkships (84%). The component received most favorably by the students was the simulation-based skill sessions. Students rated the effectiveness of the Khan Academy-style videos the highest compared with other video formats (P혻<혻.001). Qualitative analysis identified 21 subthemes in 4 domains: general positive feedback, educational content, learning environment, and specific benefits to medical students. The students reported that the learning environment fostered accountability and self-directed learning. Specific perceived benefits included preparation for the clinical rotation and the National Board of Medical Examiners shelf exam, decreased class time, socialization with peers, and faculty interaction.   CONCLUSION Medical students' perceptions of a simulation-based, flipped classroom in the surgery clerkship were overwhelmingly positive. The flipped classroom approach can be applied successfully in a surgery clerkship setting and may offer additional benefits compared with traditional lecture-based curricula.
OBJECTIVE To determine the influence of demographics, medical, and surgical variables on 30-day mortality in patients who need continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT).   MATERIALS AND METHODS A retrospective-following study was conducted using the data of 112 patients admitted to the postoperative intensive care unit who required CRRT, between August 2006 and August 2011, and followed-up for 30 days. The following information was collected: age, gender, history of HBP, DM, cardiovascular disease, and CKD, urgent surgery, surgical speciality, organic dysfunction according to the SOFA scale, the number of organs with dysfunction, use of mechanical ventilation, diagnostic and origin of sepsis, type of CRRT, and 30-day mortality. General linear models were used for estimating the strength of association (relative risk [RR], and 95% confidence interval [CI] between variables and 30-day mortality.   RESULTS In the univariant analysis, the following variables were identified as risk factors for 30-day mortality: age (RR 1.04; 95% CI 1.01-1.06; P=.0005), and history of cardiovascular disease (RR 1.57; 95% CI 1.02-2.41; P=.039). Among the variables included in the multivariable analysis (age, history of cardiovascular disease, sepsis, and number of organs with dysfunction), only age was identified as an independent risk factor for 30-day mortality (RR 1.03; 95% CI 1.00-1.05; P=.007).   CONCLUSION Thirty-day mortality in postoperative, critically ill patients who require CRRT is high (41.07%). Age has been identified as an independent risk factor, with renal failure as the most common indication for the use of these therapies.
BACKGROUND Surgical wound classification has been used in risk-adjustment models. However, it can be subjective and could potentially improperly bias hospital quality comparisons. The objective is to examine the effect of wound classification on hospital performance risk-adjustment models.   STUDY DESIGN Retrospective review of the 2011 American College of Surgeons NSQIP database was conducted for the following wound classification categories: clean, clean-contaminated, contaminated, and dirty-infected. To assess the influence of wound classification on risk adjustment, 2 models were developed for all outcomes: 1 including and 1 excluding wound classification. For each model, hospital postoperative complications were estimated using hierarchical multivariable regression methods. Absolute changes in hospital rank, correlations of odds ratios, and outlier status agreement between models were examined.   RESULTS Of the 442,149 cases performed in 315 hospitals: 53.6% were classified as clean; 34.2% as clean-contaminated; 6.7% as contaminated; and 5.5% as dirty-infected. The surgical site infection rate was highest in dirty-infected (8.5%) and lowest in clean (1.8%) cases. For overall surgical site infection, the absolute change in risk-adjusted hospital performance rank between models, including vs excluding wound classification, was minimal (mean 4.5 of 315 positions). The correlations between odds ratios of the 2 performance models were nearly perfect (R혻= 0.9976, p < 0.0001), and outlier status agreement was excellent (觀혻= 0.95ss08, p < 0.0001). Similar findings were observed in models of subgroups of surgical site infections and other postoperative outcomes.   CONCLUSIONS In circumstances where alternate information is available for risk adjustment, there appear to be minimal differences in performance models that include vs exclude wound classification. Therefore, the American College of Surgeons NSQIP is critically evaluating the continued use of wound classification in hospital performance risk-adjustment models.
Since 1827 the Escola M챕dico-Cir첬rgica of Porto published hundreds of inaugural dissertations dedicated to a broad range of subjects of medical nature. Bearing in mind the prevalence of the Lisbon school in the elaboration of its own scientific knowledge in the field of tropical medicine, the contribution of the Porto establishment may well be considered residual in comparative terms. However, between 1875 and 1923, there are documentary sources that address tropical diseases, particularly malaria. This work purports to show the contributions made by the Escola M챕dico-Cir첬rgica of Porto to a theme which initially did not arouse specific interest of northern Portuguese physicians, duly analyzing and defining the scientific output in the field of tropical medicine.
In the current health care environment, there are several areas in the delivery of health care to patients having hand surgery that need improvement to adequately fulfill patient needs, including difficulty in maintaining adequate emergency call coverage for patients having hand surgery, decreasing trends in hand surgeons willing to perform microsurgery and replantation, and deficiencies in musculoskeletal education of non-hand surgery providers. Both educational reforms and reforms in the practice environment are needed to improve the ability of hand surgeons to fulfill patient needs in the future.
Head and neck surgeons have the unique opportunity to engage with humans in life and death situations. We are confronting cancer, cure, failure, self-image, and most of all, a bond with the patient and family. We would like to view our expertise in head and neck surgery and the world of caring for our patients much like a Brigadoon. However, we daily are confronted with ever-changing and evolving approaches to health care that do not involve the physician or the patient. What kind of world is healthcare without a physician-patient interaction? Yes, there is the government-supported electronic medical record, which is here to stay (until our electrical and/or wired network fails). Yes, there is new technology, including robotic surgery and telemedicine and efforts to link these to our cell phones and applications, making care and expertise more available across long distances. And yes, there exist goals to extend care beyond the physician to other health care professions as the buffer between the physician and the patient, sometimes to reduce cost and sometimes to make care more ubiquitous. However, an Internet search will show that most say that the only constant in healthcare is change. I propose that the ultimate constant in healthcare is the physician-patient relationship.
BACKGROUND Digestive surgery training is notoriously difficult and medical students choose혻this path less and less often leading to a veritable demographic crisis for this specialty in France. The aim of this study was to evaluate the working conditions to measure the prevalence of burnout syndrome (BOS) and to identify potential risk factors to implement preventive measures and appropriate support.   METHODS This was a multicenter, cross-sectional study. An anonymous questionnaire was sent by e-mail to 500 French digestive surgeons in training (residents and fellows).   RESULTS The response rate was 65.6%. The mean working week was 75.7혻hours (짹12) and the mean number of night shifts was 5.3 (짹1.6)/month. Sixty-seven percent of respondents had trouble sleeping and 12% reported suicidal thoughts. High-emotional exhaustion, depersonalization, and personal accomplishment low scores were혻observed respectively in 24.7%, 44.6%, and 47%, corresponding to a high score of BOS in 52%.   CONCLUSIONS This study showed a high rate of BOS in French digestive surgeons in training and a worrying rate of suicide ideation.
Negligence claims in the UK NHS has increased over the last 30 years. The aim of this present study was determine the number of claims and the cost of litigation in Bariatric Surgery and compare it to similar other specialties. Data was received from NHS Litigation Authority (NHSLA) in response to Freedom of Information data request. There was a total of 7 claims, of which 4 were successful. The total pay out sum was 짙210,000 in 10 years. This is a very low amount compared to other surgical specialties. This low level of litigation probably indicates that the current bariatric surgical services in the NHS are delivering safe care with good patient satisfaction. This needs to be carefully considered prior to changing the payment tariffs for bariatric surgery.
BACKGROUND AND METHODS We conducted a focus group analysis with students and surgeons on factors which influence medical school students' education in the operating room (OR). The interviews were analyzed using grounded theory.   RESULTS The analysis resulted in 18 detailed and easily applyable themes, which were grouped into the four categories: 'Students' preparation and organizational aspects', 'Learning objectives', 'Educational strategies for the teacher', and 'Social-environmental aspects'.   CONCLUSION By including students and surgeons, we were able to extend existing knowledge and enable better understanding of factors influencing teaching in the OR.
OBJECTIVE Surgical trainees are often subject to the negative consequences of medical error, and it is therefore important to determine how trainees cope with error and to find ways of supporting trainees when catastrophic events occur. This article examines how trainees interpret catastrophic surgical outcomes and ways to provide support for trainees who have experienced catastrophic events.   DESIGN Totally 23 semistructured interviews were conducted with surgical trainees. Interviews were conducted in English and subjected to modified thematic analysis.   SETTING A tertiary care hospital in Toronto, Canada.   PARTICIPANTS Interviews were completed with 23 surgery residents. Potential participants were recruited through communications via the Department of Surgery and volunteered to take part in the study.   RESULTS Totally 5 themes emerged: (1) catastrophic errors usually represent system deficiencies; (2) catastrophic events provide lessons for future practice; (3) many trainees did not feel comfortable speaking with the surgical staff; (4) counseling services should be offered to help a subset of trainees; and (5) the culture of surgery may act as a barrier to trainees seeking help.   CONCLUSIONS This study demonstrates the importance of providing support for the emotional needs of surgical trainees who have experienced catastrophic surgical errors and the continued need for mentoring by staff surgeons.
INTRODUCTION The external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve is important for the voice. However, it is unknown how thyroid surgeons manage this nerve during operations. We hypothesised that this management is related to the surgeon's age, gender, the surgeons' annual number of thyroid operations, i.e volume, and surgical specialisation.   METHODS We sent a 17-item enquiry by e-mail to members of the Swedish Endocrine Surgical Society and the Swedish Association for Otorhinolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery. The questions covered subjects such as age, gender, type of department and operation volume of the surgeon, and whether and how the surgeon would try to preserve and/or identify the EBSLN during an operation. Surgeons were asked to rate the importance of the nerve, and of their use of laryngoscopy and/or voice recording.   RESULTS There were 85 respondents. Ninety per cent of them would always or often try to preserve the nerve, but only half would always or often try to identify it. Endocrine surgeons more often stated that they would preserve the nerve; they rated its importance more highly and they more often mentioned the use of neuromonitoring to identify the nerve, than head and neck surgeons. Head and neck surgeons on the other hand were more likely to perform laryngoscopy. Endocrine surgeons more often performed >50 thyroid operations per year than head and neck surgeons.   CONCLUSIONS Management of the external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve differed according to surgeon specialisation, which in turn was associated with surgical volume.
OBJECTIVE Among other indispensible qualities, a competent surgeon needs to be technically skilled. With the advent of minimally invasive procedures, technical demands on surgeons also increase. Will it be possible for all individuals to meet these technical demands through motivated practice or is there a trait such as 'aptitude' that determines ultimate surgical skill?   DESIGN Baseline laparoscopic psychomotor aptitude (on a box trainer), visual-spatial aptitude (Schlauch figures test), and interest in surgery (10-point Likert scale) were measured in our study group. Afterward, study participants attended a 3-hour hands-on laparoscopy training, followed by 2 additional weeks of voluntary practice for those who were motivated to do so. After these 2 weeks, participants were retested using the laparoscopic box trainer.   SETTING All research was performed in the Center for Surgical Technologies, Leuven.   PARTICIPANTS A total of 68 fifth-year medical students without prior experience in laparoscopy from the University of Leuven.   RESULTS Multiple additive regression analysis showed significant effect for psychomotor aptitude (26%), interest in surgery (9%), and voluntary practice (18%) on final box trainer performance. No correlation was found between aptitude and interest in surgery (p = 0.27). No correlation was found between aptitude and amount of voluntary practice. High-aptitude students more frequently applied for surgical disciplines in their final career choice (50% vs 18%, p = 0.01).   CONCLUSIONS This study shows that aptitude and motivated practice equally influence final box trainer performance. Students with lower aptitude do not automatically train more. Although the interest in surgery was initially not related to psychomotor aptitude, eventually students with high aptitude apply more frequently for a surgical career.
Introduction Our nation suffers from a shortage in surgeons. This deficiency must be addressed at the medical student level. Increasing faculty and resident interaction with junior students augments surgical interest. Our surgical interest group has recently redefined its role to address these concerns. Methods A multifocal approach has been implemented to increase interest in the surgical specialties. Each academic year, senior students recruit first and second year students to our group to establish early exposure. Members receive didactic presentations from surgical faculty, addressing various topics, on a biweekly basis. In addition, scrubbing, knot-tying, and suturing workshops address technical skills throughout the semester. Membership and match data were collated and analyzed. Results Over the past 5 years, the enrollment in the student interest group increased significantly from 112 to 150. Accordingly, we have observed a parallel increase in the number of students who have successfully matched into surgical residencies. A record number of students (37) from the class of 2013 matched into surgical specialties, representing an 85% increase over the last decade. After creating bylaws and electing societal officers, the group has been recognized by the school's Student Council and given financial support. At present, the group is fiscally solvent with support from the institution, surgery department, and faculty. Conclusion As the demand for surgeons increases so too does the need to increase student interest in surgery. Our school has been successful because of our surgical interest group, and we encourage other schools to adopt a similar approach.
Importance Establishing strategies to minimize the burden of burnout and poor quality of life (QOL) on surgeons relies on a thorough understanding of QOL and burnout among the various surgical specialties.   Objectives To systematically review the literature across multiple surgical specialties and provide a comprehensive understanding of QOL and burnout among all surgeons, to delineate variation in rates of burnout and poor QOL, and to elucidate factors that are commonly implicated in these outcomes.   Evidence Review An OVID electronic search encompassing MEDLINE, PsycInfo, and EMBASE was completed using the following MeSH search terms: quality of life, burnout, surgeon, surgical specialty, and United States. Full articles published in English from January 1, 1980, to June 10, 2015, that evaluated US surgical specialists and included more than 1 question related to QOL were included. Review articles and evaluations that included medical students or nonsurgical health care professionals were excluded. Of 1420 titles, 41 articles met these criteria. The standardized methodologic principles of PRISMA for reporting systematic reviews guided analysis. Primary end points were QOL scores and burnout rates that compared sex, age, level of training (resident vs attending), surgical specialty, and the type of assessment tool. Secondary outcomes included proposed work hours and income as factors contributing to burnout. Owing to the heterogeneity of data reporting among articles, qualitative analysis was also reported.   Findings Of the 16 specialties included, pediatric (86% to 96%) and endocrine (96%) surgeons demonstrated the highest career satisfaction, whereas a portion of plastic surgeons (33%) and vascular surgeons (64%) were least satisfied. The effect of sex was variable. Residents demonstrated a significantly higher risk for burnout than attending surgeons across multiple specialties, including obstetrics and gynecology, otolaryngology, and orthopedic surgery. One-third of the studies found hours worked per week to be a statistically significant predictor of burnout, decreased career satisfaction, and poorer QOL.   Conclusions and Relevance Burnout and QOL vary across all surgical specialties. Whether sex affects burnout rates remains unclear. Residents are at an increased risk for burnout and more likely to report a poor QOL than attending surgeons.
BACKGROUND Establishing a strong link early on between preclinical coursework and the clinical context is necessary for students to be able to recognize the practical relevance of the curriculum during their preclinical anatomical courses and to transfer knowledge more easily. Our objective was to enhance the clinical relevance of a preclinical anatomy course for second-year medical students of dentistry by implementing an interdisciplinary skills training course on 'Palpation of the Head and Neck Muscles' and to measure the learning outcomes.   METHODS For the curricular development of the expanded course module, Kern's 6-step approach was applied including subjective evaluation. We used a peer-teaching format supported by an e-learning application. A randomized control study measured effects of the two components (skills training, e-module) on learning outcomes. Four learning methods were compared: (1) lecture, (2) lecture+뎓-module, (3) lecture+뎤kills training, (4) lecture+뎤kills training+뎓-module. An objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) was used to measure and compare learning outcomes.   RESULTS The two-way variance analysis demonstrated that participation in the skills training had a statistically significant effect on the OSCE results (p=0.0007). Students who participated in the skills training did better ( 107.4됀기14.4 points) than students who only attended the lecture ( 88.8됀기26.2 points). Students who used the e-module but did not attend the skills training earned a slightly but not significantly higher average number of points ( 91.8됀기31.3 points) than those who only attended the lecture. The learning outcomes of the skills training were again significantly increased when the training was combined with the e-module ( 121.8됀기21.8 points), thus making it the ideal method for achieving the learning objectives defined in this study.   CONCLUSIONS The 'Palpation of the Head and Neck Muscles' interdisciplinary skills training course linking basic anatomical knowledge and clinical skills led to clearly improved learning outcomes for both, anatomical knowledge and clinical skills. The additional use of an e-learning tool (e-module) improved the learning effect.
This is a review of the 63rd British Association of Pediatric Surgeons (BAPS) annual conference which was held in July 2016 in Amsterdam in the Netherlands. This congress issue contains papers presented during the open sessions and transcripts based on invited lectures.
Paediatric endoscopic surgery is greatly indebted to Karl Storz for developing paediatric endoscopic instruments. In more recent years, there is an increasing interest in endoscopic surgery in neonates. Now more complex procedures are being performed, although it will take another generation before these will be more generally applied. One of the key factors to success is training. More sophisticated training models are becoming available, allowing practicing in a safe environment before putting the procedure to practice. A key question in performing complex procedures is whether such procedures should not be concentrated into centres of expertise. Finally, a critical appraisal is warranted in regard to safety of surgery in neonates, as they fail to have cerebral autoregulation. As endoscopy may add additional risk factors, close monitoring is obligatory.   LEVEL OF EVIDENCE V.
This article is based on the Hugh Greenwood Lecture delivered at the 2016 Congress of the British Association of Paediatric Surgeons. It presents the view of the global surgery movement from the bottom of the surgical food chain and proposes what HICs (high-income countries) can do for global surgery in a coordinated fashion. From the LMIC (low- and middle-income countries) surgeon perspective, global surgery is transitioning from the charity-based surgery model to codevelopment with multiple stakeholders. The caveats and current opportunities are described using two case studies. Surgeons may not play a pivotal role in the solutions. The future of the surgical workforce, innovation, workarounds, unmet burden of disease, and health metrics are discussed and multidisciplinary solutions proposed for the entire chain of surgical healthcare delivery in LMIC. A new breed of 'essential surgeons', technology solutions for intellectual and physical isolation, competency-based credentialing, industry-driven innovation, task sharing over task shifting, prioritizing delivery based on surgical burden, and a rota-based overseas model of help are proposed as solutions for the issues facing global surgery.   EVIDENCE LEVEL Level V.
Aim긖his study aims to define patterns of Hirschsprung disease (HD) management. Methods귺n online questionnaire was sent to all European Paediatric Surgeons' Association (EUPSA) members. Results귺 total of 294 members (61 countries) answered (response rate: 61%).   DIAGNOSIS All respondents perform rectal biopsies (61% rectal suction [RSBs], 39% open full-thickness), 96% contrast enema, and 31% anorectal manometry. At RSB, 17% take the most distal biopsy 1 cm above the dentate line, 34% take 2 cm, 30% take 3 cm, and 19% take>3 cm. Rectal biopsy staining's are hematoxylin/eosin (77%), acetylcholinesterase (74%), calretinin (31%), S100 (2%), nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-tetrazolium reductase (2%), succinate dehydrogenase (1%), and neuron-specific enolase (1%). A total of 85% respondents recognize entities including hypoganglionosis (69%), intestinal neuronal dysplasia (55%), and ultrashort segment HD (50%).   SURGERY Pull-through (PT) is performed at diagnosis by 33% or delayed by 67% (4 months or>5 kg). Awaiting definitive surgery, 77% perform rectal irrigations, 22% rectal dilatation/stimulations, and 33% perform a stoma. The preferred type of PT is the Soave approach (65%), performed with transanal technique by 70% respondents. If symptoms persist after PT, most opt for conservative approach (enemas/laxatives=76%; botulinum toxin=27%), 30% would redo the PT. Total colonic aganglionosis: PT is performed in neonates (4%), at 1 to 6 months (29%), 6 to 12 months (37%) or older (30%). If required, a stoma is sited in the ileum (31%), according to intraoperative biopsies (54%), macroscopic impression (13%), and radiology (2%). Duhamel PT is performed by 52%, Soave by 31%, and Swenson by 17%. Overall, 31% would perform a J-pouch. Conclusions긎ost aspects of HD management lack consensus with wide variations in obtaining a diagnosis. Transanal Soave PT is the most common technique in standard segment HD. Guidelines should be developed to avoid such variability in management and to facilitate research studies.
BACKGROUND The Lancet Commission on Global Surgery (LCoGS) described the lack of access to safe, affordable, timely surgical, and anesthesia care. It proposed a series of 6 indicators to measure surgery, accompanied by time-bound targets and a template for national surgical planning. To date, no sub-Saharan African country has completed and published a nationwide evaluation of its surgical system within this framework.   METHOD Mercy Ships, in partnership with Harvard Medical School and the Madagascar Ministry of Health, collected data on the 6 indicators from 22 referral hospitals in 16 out of 22 regions of Madagascar. Data collection was by semi-structured interviews with ministerial, medical, laboratory, pharmacy, and administrative representatives in each region. Microsimulation modeling was used to calculate values for financial indicators.   RESULTS In Madagascar, 29% of the population can access a surgical facility within 2혻h. Surgical workforce density is 0.78 providers per 100,000 and annual surgical volume is 135-191 procedures per 100,000 with a perioperative mortality rate of 2.5-3.3%. Patients requiring surgery have a 77.4-86.3 and 78.8-95.1% risk of incurring impoverishing and catastrophic expenditure, respectively. Of the six LCoGS indicator targets, Madagascar meets one, the reporting of perioperative mortality rate.   CONCLUSION Compared to the LCoGS targets, Madagascar has deficits in surgical access, workforce, volume, and the ability to offer financial risk protection to surgical patients. Its perioperative mortality rate, however, appears better than in comparable countries. The government is committed to improvement, and key stakeholder meetings to create a national surgical plan have begun.
BACKGROUND In Pennsylvania, medical malpractice premiums are a major cost to surgeons. Yet surgeons often have little if any education in the basics of tort litigation or how to manage their risk. This work describes one approach for educating academic faculty surgeons on current concepts of medical malpractice and provide some guidance on how to 'tip the scales of justice'; or minimize the risks of being named in a malpractice claim.   MATERIALS AND METHODS The course had five parts: the basics of medical malpractice, the cost of malpractice insurance, current departmental claims experience, strategies for decreasing the risk of being named in a claim, and an overview of malpractice reforms. An anonymous seven question survey was cast in a five-point Likert scale format. A weighted average of 4.5 or above was considered satisfactory. Two free text questions asked about positive and negative aspects of the course.   RESULTS Eighty of 95 (84%) faculty attended either in person or by reviewing a web-based video. Quantitatively, five of seven questions had a weighted average of more than 4.5 (n혻=혻48, response rate혻=혻60%). Qualitatively, the course was reviewed very favorably.   CONCLUSIONS The high percentage of participation and overall survey results suggest that the course was successful. This course was one facet of an approach to decrease the risk of malpractice claims. Unique aspects of this course include an emphasis on state law, department-specific data, and strategies to minimize risk of future claims. Given the state-specific nature of malpractice claims and litigation, individual departments must particularize similar presentations.
BACKGROUND Research and innovation are crucial to advancements in medicine and improvements in patient care. The contribution of surgical fellowships to scholarly productivity is unclear. The objective of this study was to determine the impact of subspecialty fellowships on academic output in departments of surgery.   METHODS This cross-sectional study examined fellowships offered at the top 50 university-based National Institutes of Health-funded and top 5 academically prolific hospital-based departments of surgery. Publications, citations, and National Institutes of Health funding history were determined for 4,015 faculty. 2 and t tests were used as appropriate.   RESULTS Cardiothoracic surgery fellowships are offered at all departments, while other surgical fellowships are offered in 52 of 55 departments (96.4%). Median department publications/citations increased with the number of fellowships offered in addition to cardiothoracic surgery: no fellowship (27혻짹혻93/437혻짹혻2,509), 1-3 fellowships (34혻짹혻90/559혻짹혻3,046), and 4 or more fellowships (40혻짹혻97/716혻짹혻3,200,혻P혻<혻.05). Significant divisional improvements in publications/citations and National Institutes of Health funding were observed for those with fellowship programs in pediatric, breast, and plastic surgery (P혻<혻.05). No differences in departmental National Institutes of Health funding rates were observed based on number of fellowships offered.   CONCLUSION Based on publications/citations and National Institutes of Health funding, it seems that select fellowships are associated with improved scholarly activity. Departments may wish to consider the academic benefits of offering these fellowship types.
BACKGROUND The advancement of surgical science relies on educating new generations of surgeon-scientists. Career development awards (K Awards) from the National Institutes of Health, often considered a marker of early academic success, are one way physician-scientists may foster skills through a mentored research experience. This study aimed to develop a conceptual framework to understand institutional support and other factors leading to a K Award.   METHODS A national, qualitative study was conducted with academic surgeons. Participants included 15혻K Awardees and 12 surgery department Chairs. Purposive sampling ensured a diverse range of experiences. Semistructured, in-depth telephone interviews were conducted. Interviews were audio recorded and transcribed verbatim, and 2 reviewers analyzed the transcripts using Grounded Theory methodology.   RESULTS Participants described individual and institutional factors contributing to success. K Awardees cited personal factors such as perseverance and team leadership skills. Chairs described the K Awardee as an institutional 'investment' requiring protected time for research, financial support, and mentorship. Both K Awardees and Chairs identified a number of challenges unique to the surgeon-scientist, including financial strains and competing clinical demands.   CONCLUSION Institutional support for surgeons pursuing K Awards is a complex investment with significant initial costs to the department. Chairs act as stewards of institutional resources and support those surgeon-scientists most likely to be successful. Although the K Award pathway is one way to develop surgeon-scientists, financial burdens and challenges may limit its usefulness. These findings, however, may better prepare young surgeons to develop career plans and identify new mechanisms for academic productivity.
UNLABELLED We present the results of the validation of an inanimate model created for training thoracoscopic treatment of esophageal atresia with lower tracheoesophageal fistula (EA/TEF).   MATERIALS AND METHODS We used different domestic materials such as a piece of wood (support), corrugated plastic tubes (PVC) of different sizes to simulate ribs, intercostal spaces, trachea and spine and tubular latex balloons to simulate the esophagus and lungs to make the basic model. This device was inserted into the thoracic cavity of a rubber dummy simulating a 3kg newborn with a work area volume of 50ml. The model was designed taking into account the experience of doing this procedure in neonates. The cost of the materials used was 50 US$. Regular video endoscopic equipment and 3mm instruments were used. Thirty-nine international faculty or pediatric surgeons attending hands on courses with different levels of training in minimal invasive surgery (MIS) repair of EA/TEF performed the procedure in the model. We compared the performance of the practitioners with their experience in thoracoscopic repair of EA. A Likert-type scale was used to evaluate results. Previous experience in MIS, anatomical appearance of the model, surgical anatomy compared to a real patient, and utility as a training method were analyzed. We also used a checklist to assess performance. We evaluated: number of errors and types of injuries, quality of the anastomosis, and duration of procedure. To analyze the results we used a T-test, chi-square test and Excel짰 database to match up some results.   RESULTS Thirty-nine questionnaires were completed. Seven surgeons were experts (30 TEF/EA repairs as surgeon), 10 had intermediate level of experience (5 to 29 repairs as surgeon) and 22 were beginners (less than 5 repairs). To simplify the analysis we divided the respondents into low experience LE (<5 real procedures-beginners; n=22) and high experience HE (intermediate, 10; and experts, 7; n=17). In relation to the anatomical characteristics of the model, 94.48% (n=37) respondents considered that the model has a high degree of similarity or good similarity; in relation to surgical anatomy 88.2% (n=34) respondents considered that the model has a high degree of similarity or good similarity; 87.17% (n=34) respondents considered that the model can generate a good amount of skills and/or can generate great majority of skills to EA/TEF repair; and 12.82% (n=5) respondents consider that it can generate some skills or a few skills, only in relation to trocar placement, one of the surveyed items. The number of errors was 29짹7 SD (20 to 51) for the low experience group (LE) and 9짹6 SD (1 to 20) for the high experience group (HE) (P value<0.0001). Time in minutes was significantly lower in the HE group (40짹9 SD; 26 to 58min), in relation with LE (81짹19 SD; 49 to 118min) (P<0.0001, T-test). Deficient or incomplete anastomosis also showed differences: 7 (32%) in the LE group and 1 (6%) in the HE group (P = 0.04, chi-square test). We saw a correlation between the previous experience of the surgeon and their performance in the model considering operating time, quality of anastomosis and peripheral tissue damage. According to the suggestions registered in the questionnaires, we have now improved the model. We have also started using it in a scenario to simulate the whole neonatal MIS operative room setting and team work.
BACKGROUND The objective of this randomized controlled trial was to determine whether a goal-setting program integrated into a surgical training curriculum would improve performance on simulation testing times and confidence with laparoscopic operative skills.   METHODS Beginning in 2013, 36 students and 26 general surgery residents were randomized separately into 3 groups. Trainees were either given no time goals for each of 5 Fundamentals of Laparoscopic Surgery (FLS) tasks or were given time goals that were the mean time scores or the best time scores reported in the literature for passing each FLS task. All trainees were evaluated for each task with time scores and a confidence survey both prior to and after the training program.   RESULTS For the students, all confidence scores and task times improved significantly from pre- to post-training. The average percent improvement in task times was greater for all 5 tasks in the 2 groups assigned to the goals compared to the no-goals group with the combined 5-task, mean percent improvement (P혻=혻.02). Overall, the students assigned to the mean-goal group improved more than the best or no-goal groups (P혻=혻.048). In the residents assigned to goals, all task times improved significantly pre/post, although the overall average percent improvement between groups was not different. Residents in both the no-goals and the goals groups improved their confidence with skills pre- to post-training.   CONCLUSION The addition of achievable goals, defined as the average task time for residents who passed the FLS, was beneficial to students, because by achieving these goals, the students were able to achieve faster task times with improved confidence. Setting appropriate goals may improve laparoscopic operative skills in students. Suitable goals were also shown to strengthen accuracy and confidence in residents' laparoscopic operative skills.
Importance Primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT) is a common clinical problem for which the only definitive management is surgery. Surgical management has evolved considerably during the last several decades.   Objective To develop evidence-based guidelines to enhance the appropriate, safe, and effective practice of parathyroidectomy.   Evidence Review A multidisciplinary panel used PubMed to review the medical literature from January 1, 1985, to July 1, 2015. Levels of evidence were determined using the American College of Physicians grading system, and recommendations were discussed until consensus.   Findings Initial evaluation should include 25-hydroxyvitamin D measurement, 24-hour urine calcium measurement, dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry, and supplementation for vitamin D deficiency. Parathyroidectomy is indicated for all symptomatic patients, should be considered for most asymptomatic patients, and is more cost-effective than observation or pharmacologic therapy. Cervical ultrasonography or other high-resolution imaging is recommended for operative planning. Patients with nonlocalizing imaging remain surgical candidates. Preoperative parathyroid biopsy should be avoided. Surgeons who perform a high volume of operations have better outcomes. The possibility of multigland disease should be routinely considered. Both focused, image-guided surgery (minimally invasive parathyroidectomy) and bilateral exploration are appropriate operations that achieve high cure rates. For minimally invasive parathyroidectomy, intraoperative parathyroid hormone monitoring via a reliable protocol is recommended. Minimally invasive parathyroidectomy is not routinely recommended for known or suspected multigland disease. Ex vivo aspiration of resected parathyroid tissue may be used to confirm parathyroid tissue intraoperatively. Clinically relevant thyroid disease should be assessed preoperatively and managed during parathyroidectomy. Devascularized normal parathyroid tissue should be autotransplanted. Patients should be observed postoperatively for hematoma, evaluated for hypocalcemia and symptoms of hypocalcemia, and followed up to assess for cure defined as eucalcemia at more than 6 months. Calcium supplementation may be indicated postoperatively. Familial pHPT, reoperative parathyroidectomy, and parathyroid carcinoma are challenging entities that require special consideration and expertise.   Conclusions and Relevance Evidence-based recommendations were created to assist clinicians in the optimal treatment of patients with pHPT.
Neonatal surgery is recognized as an independent discipline in general surgery, requiring the expertise of pediatric surgeons to optimize outcomes in infants with surgical conditions. Survival following neonatal surgery has improved dramatically in the past 60 years. Improvements in pediatric surgical outcomes are in part attributable to improved understanding of neonatal physiology, specialized pediatric anesthesia, neonatal critical care including sophisticated cardiopulmonary support, utilization of parenteral nutrition and adjustments in fluid management, refinement of surgical technique, and advances in surgical technology including minimally invasive options. Nevertheless, short and long-term complications following neonatal surgery continue to have profound and sometimes lasting effects on individual patients, families, and society.
Obtaining reliable enteral and vascular access constitutes a significant fraction of a pediatric surgeon柳s job. Multiple approaches are available. Given the complicated nature of this patient population multiple complications can also occur. This article discusses the various techniques and potential complications associated with short- and long-term enteral and vascular access.
This review highlights the complications and their risk factors encountered in pediatric hepatobiliary surgery, specifically in the context of pediatric hepatic resection, excision of choledochal cyst, and the Kasai hepatoportoenterostomy procedure for biliary atresia as well as other procedures potentially affecting the biliary tree. With the understanding that these are relatively rare procedures, case reports and small case series are included in addition to larger series when available. The review focuses on publications in English over the past 15 years. Complications included both surgery-specific pathology, such as biliary stricture after excision of choledochal cyst, and disease-specific entities, such as malnutrition in biliary atresia. This review may be useful when considering a particular procedure or in the discussion thereof with a patient and family. Additionally, it illuminates the need for additional work with larger patient databases to refine and expand our knowledge of these complications and precipitating risk factors.
With improvement in the outcomes for children with cancer has come an increasing focus on minimizing the morbidity from therapeutic interventions, including surgical procedures, while continuing to have a high likelihood of cure. Thus, an appreciation for the potential complications of surgery, both acute and long term, is critical when considering the risks and benefits of any procedure performed on a child with cancer. Although not meant to be an exhaustive review, here we discuss the most common and significant surgical complications that may occur when performing diagnostic, therapeutic, or supportive procedures in children with the most common malignant solid tumors.
OBJECTIVES To assess the early impact of implementation of the electronic consults (e-consults) initiative by the Veterans Health Administration (VHA), designed to improve specialty care access.   STUDY DESIGN Observational cohort study exploiting a natural experiment begun in May 2011 at 12 VHA medical centers and expanded to 122 medical centers by December 2013.   METHODS The following were assessed: 1) growth of e-consults by VHA regional networks, medical centers, and specialty; 2) location of patient's primary care provider (medical center vs community-based outpatient clinic [CBOC]); 3) potential patient miles needed to travel for a specialty care face-to-face consult in place of the observed e-consults using estimated geodesic distance; 4) use of specialty care subsequent to the e-consult.   RESULTS Of 11,270,638 consults completed in 13 clinics of interest, 217,014 were e-consults (adjusted rate, 1.93 e-consults per 100 consults). The e-consult rate was highest in endocrinology (5.0 per 100), hematology (3.0 per 100), and gastroenterology (3.0 per 100). The percentage of e-consult patients with CBOC-based primary care grew from 28.5% to 44.4% in the first year of implementation and to 45.6% at year 3. Of those e-consult patients from community clinics, the average potential miles needed to travel was 72.1 miles per patient (SD = 72.6; median = 54.6; interquartile range = 17.1-108), translating to a potential savings of 6,875,631 total miles and travel reimbursement costs of $2,853,387.   CONCLUSIONS E-consult volume increased significantly since inception within many medical and surgical specialties. For patients receiving primary care at one of more than 800 CBOCs, e-consults may decrease travel burden and direct travel costs for patients.
BACKGROUND The ACGME requires general surgery residents (GSR) to perform 20 pediatric surgery cases as part of the total 750 cases before graduation.   STUDY DESIGN We queried the ACGME General Surgery (1999 to 2014) and Pediatric Surgery (2003 to 2014) Case Logs for all pediatric operations performed during training. Means (짹SD) and medians (10(th):90(th) percentiles) were compared, and R(2) was calculated for all trends.   RESULTS The number of pediatric surgery fellows (PSF) increased 63% (23 to 39; R(2)혻= 0.82), while GSR numbers increased 12% (989 to 1,105; R(2)혻= 0.77). Total and average pediatric surgery case volume for GSR decreased from 39,309 to 32,156 (R(2)혻= 0.90) and 39.7 짹 13 to 29.1 짹 10 (R(2)혻= 0.91), respectively. Meanwhile, average PSF case volume increased from 980 짹 208 to 1,137 짹 202 (R(2)혻= 0.83). These trends persisted for inguinal/umbilical hernia (GSR 22.1 짹 13 to 15.6 짹 10; R(2)혻= 0.93; PSF 90.5 짹 17.6 to 104.4 짹 20.7; R(2)혻= 0.34), pyloric stenosis (GSR 3.9 짹 3 to 2.8 짹 3; R(2)혻= 0.60; PSF 29.6 짹 15 to 39.7 짹 16.8; R(2)혻= 0.69), and intestinal atresia (GSR 1.3 짹 2 to 1.1 짹 2; R(2)혻= 0.34; PSF 4.3 짹 4 to 11.8 짹 8; R(2)혻= 0.21). The mean number of GSR pediatric operations diminished for both junior (37.1 짹 20 to 27.3 짹 16; R(2)혻= 0.88) and chief (2.6 짹 5 to 1.7 짹 5; R(2)혻= 0.75) years. Teaching cases in pediatric surgery decreased at all levels. Although the percentage of GSR teaching cases performed during chief years fell modestly (6.6% to 4.7%; R(2)혻= 0.53), median teaching cases dropped from 2 (0:11 [10(th):90(th) percentiles]) to zero (0:0 [10(th):90(th) percentiles]). Mean PSF teaching cases declined (100.7 짹 396 to 44.5 짹 42; R(2)혻= 0.72), while the percentage of operations that were teaching cases decreased more sharply (10.3% to 3.5%; R(2)혻= 0.82).   CONCLUSIONS Total pediatric surgery cases and PSF operative volume have increased, while GSR operative volume has decreased. Opportunities may exist to increase resident participation while providing further teaching opportunities for GSR, improving the quality of both혻resident and fellow training.
BACKGROUND The aim of this study was to assess validity of a human factors error assessment method for evaluating resident performance during a simulated operative procedure.   METHODS Seven postgraduate year 4-5 residents had 30 minutes to complete a simulated laparoscopic ventral hernia (LVH) repair on day 1 of a national, advanced laparoscopic course. Faculty provided immediate feedback on operative errors and residents participated in a final product analysis of their repairs. Residents then received didactic and hands-on training regarding several advanced laparoscopic procedures during a lecture session and animate lab. On day 2, residents performed a nonequivalent LVH repair using a simulator. Three investigators reviewed and coded videos of the repairs using previously developed human error classification systems.   RESULTS Residents committed 121 total errors on day 1 compared with 146 on day 2. One of 7 residents successfully completed the LVH repair on day 1 compared with all 7 residents on day 2 (P = .001). The majority of errors (85%) committed on day 2 were technical and occurred during the last 2 steps of the procedure. There were significant differences in error type (P  .001) and level (P = .019) from day 1 to day 2. The proportion of omission errors decreased from day 1 (33%) to day 2 (14%). In addition, there were more technical and commission errors on day 2.   CONCLUSION The error assessment tool was successful in categorizing performance errors, supporting known-groups validity evidence. Evaluating resident performance through error classification has great potential in facilitating our understanding of operative readiness.
This article characterizes the Canadian hepato-pancreato-biliary (HPB) surgery workforce (demographics, practice patterns, career satisfaction, education and recruitment plans). This information will serve as a baseline for future national comparisons, allow informed workforce planning and facilitate mathematical modelling of the HPB workforce in Canada.
BACKGROUND The Consortium of American College of Surgeons Accredited Education Institutes (ACS-AEIs) was created to promote patient safety through the use of simulation, develop innovative education and training, advance technologies, identify best practices, and encourage research and collaboration.   METHODS During the seventh annual meeting of the consortium, leaders from across the consortium who have developed institution-wide simulation centers were invited to participate in a panel to discuss their experiences and the lessons learned.   CONCLUSION These discussions resulted in definition of 5 key areas that need to be addressed effectively to support efforts of the ACS-AEIs.
BACKGROUND The Consortium of American College of Surgeons-Accredited Education Institutes was created to promote patient safety through the use of simulation, develop new education and technologies, identify best practices, and encourage research and collaboration.   METHODS During the 7th Annual Meeting of the Consortium, leaders from a variety of specialties discussed how simulation is playing a role in the assessment of resident performance within the context of the Milestones of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education as part of the Next Accreditation System.   CONCLUSION This report presents experiences from several viewpoints and supports the utility of simulation for this purpose.
BACKGROUND Contemporary surgical postgraduate training is characterized by clear outcomes for the profession and an assessment program that shows that trainees master these outcomes. The tool used to collect assessment and feedback instruments is the portfolio, nowadays used in many countries worldwide.   METHODS The four Flemish surgical coordinators, together with experts from different universities, devised an electronic portfolio. This portfolio holds both the logbook, as imposed by the evaluation committee and assessment instruments used for the Master in Specialized Medicine.   RESULTS The e-portfolio is now used by a number of surgical trainees and has been approved by the evaluation committee. In 2015, all Flemish surgical trainees will be using one and the same e-portfolio.   CONCLUSIONS Although the e-portfolio for surgical training has now been devised and accepted by all major parties involved, a lot of work has to be done to implement the instrument. As resident duty hours show no improvement on education in surgery (but rather a perception of worsened education) surgery training is fazing huge challenges.
BACKGROUND The increasing subspecialisation of general surgeons in their elective work may result in problems for the provision of expert care for emergency cases. There is very little evidence of the impact of subspecialism on outcomes following emergency major upper gastrointestinal surgery. This prospective study investigated whether elective subspecialism of general surgeon is associated with a difference in outcome following major emergency gastric surgery.   METHODS Between February 1994 and June 2010, the data from all emergency major gastric procedures (defined as patients who underwent laparotomy within 12 hours of referral to the surgical service for bleeding gastroduodenal ulcer and/or undergoing major gastric resection) was prospectively recorded. The sub-specialty interest of operating surgeon was noted and related to post-operative outcomes.   RESULTS Over the study period, a total of 63 major gastric procedures were performed of which 23 (37%) were performed by specialist upper gastrointestinal (UGI) consultants. Surgery performed by a specialist UGI surgeon was associated with a significantly lower surgical complication (4% vs. 28% of cases; p=0.04) and in-patient mortality rate (22% vs. 50%; p=0.03).   CONCLUSIONS Major emergency gastric surgery has significantly better clinical outcomes when performed by a specialist UGI surgeon. These results have important implications for provision of an emergency general surgical service.
BACKGROUND Student acquisition of technical skills during the clinical years of medical school has been steadily declining. To address this issue, the authors instituted a fresh cadaver-based Emergency Surgical Skills Laboratory (ESSL).   METHODS Sixty-three medical students rotating through the third-year surgery clerkship participated in a 2-hour, fresh cadaver-based ESSL conducted during the first 2 days of the clerkship. The authors evaluated students utilizing both surgical skills and written examination before the ESSL and at 4 weeks post ESSL.   RESULTS Students demonstrated a mean improvement of 64% (짹11) (P < .001) and 38% (짹17) (P혻< .001) in technical skills and clinical knowledge, respectively. When technical skills were compared between cohorts, there were no differences observed in both pre- and post-testing (P = .08).   CONCLUSIONS A fresh cadaver laboratory is an effective method to provide proficiency in emergency혻technical skills not acquired during the clinical years of medical school.
PURPOSE Prenatal consultation is an important skill that should be learned during pediatric surgery training, but there are no formal guidelines for fellowship programs at this time. We sought to characterize the fellowship experience of recent pediatric surgery graduates and assess preparedness for providing prenatal consultation.   METHODS An anonymous online survey of pediatric surgery fellows graduating in 2012 and 2013 was performed. We asked respondents to describe participation in prenatal consultation and preparedness to perform consultation. We measured demographics and fellowship characteristics and tested associations between these variables and preparedness to perform prenatal consultation.   RESULTS A total of 49 out of 80 fellows responded to the survey (61% response rate). Most respondents (55%) saw five or fewer prenatal consults during fellowship, and 20% had not seen any prenatal consults. 47% said that fellowship could have better prepared them to perform prenatal consults. Fellows who saw more than 5 prenatal consults during fellowship (33% vs 77%, p=0.002) or described their fellowship as being structured to facilitate participation in prenatal consults (83% vs 27%, p<0.0001) were more likely to feel prepared. Stepwise logistic regression revealed that after adjusting for covariates, fellows graduating from programs that were 1) structured to facilitate participation in prenatal consults (OR 18, 95% CI 3.7-86.7), or 2) did NOT have an established fetal program (OR 5.5, 95% CI 1.1-27.8) were more likely to feel prepared.   CONCLUSION Exposure to prenatal consultation varies greatly across pediatric surgery fellowships, and many recent graduates do not feel prepared to perform prenatal consultation. The presence of an established fetal program did not necessarily translate into improved fellow training. Efforts should be made to standardize the approach to fellow education in this area and ensure that adequate guidance and resources are available to recently graduated pediatric surgeons.
BACKGROUND Vascular training includes both integrated residency ('0+5') and postresidency fellowship ('5+2') programs. The impact of training models on attitudes toward graduates as prospective hires is incompletely understood, and existing studies have primarily surveyed surgeons from academic centers. We surveyed surgeons who were in active clinical practice but not affiliated with a medical school or training program to compare perceptions of integrated versus postgraduate programs.   METHODS Vascular surgeons not affiliated with a university-based practice were identified from membership rosters of one regional and one national specialty society and e-mailed an anonymous survey. The survey evaluated respondents' training, practice distribution, general surgery responsibilities, hiring practices, and perception of the integrated and postgraduate trained vascular surgeons. Agreement among specific responses was evaluated using McNemar's test.   RESULTS The survey was sent to 406 surgeons with 71 (17.5%) responding. A total of 42% of respondents indicated that half or more of their cases consisted of open procedures and 10% reported general surgery coverage as part of their practice. More respondents indicated that they consider postgraduate trained surgeons very mature (41% vs. 7%, P < 0.0001) and better prepared for open cases (89% vs. 28%, P < 0.0001), as well as endovascular cases (96% vs. 87%, P = 0.0339). Overall 84% stated that they would interview an integrated program graduate, although only 72% indicated that they would hire one. Overall 16.9% identified ability to cover general surgery as either very important or somewhat important characteristic for a potential hire.   CONCLUSIONS Perceptions of 5+2 graduates as more mature and better prepared for opens surgical cases may influence hiring practices. This suggests that attitudes toward integrated versus 5+2 trained surgeons may differ between academic and community vascular surgeons. Further research is needed to assess whether these differences are related to actual differences in graduate skills, familiarity with integrated graduates, or other factors.
BACKGROUND/PURPOSE The M&M conference at Nationwide Children's Hospital (NCH) categorized failures as technical error or patient disease, but failure modes were never captured, action items rarely assigned, and follow-up rarely completed. In 2013 a QI-driven M&M conference was developed, supporting implementation of directed actions to improve quality of care.   METHODS A classification was developed to enhance analysis of complications. Each complication was analyzed for identification of failure modes with subcategorization of root cause, a level of preventability assigned, and action items designated. Failure determinations from 11/2013-10/2014 were reviewed to evaluate the distribution of failure modes and action items.   RESULTS Two-hundred thirty-seven patients with complications were reviewed. One-hundred thirty patients had complications attributed to patient disease with no individual or system failure identified, whereas 107 patients had identifiable failures. Eighty-five patients had one failure identified, and 22 patients had multiple failures identified. Of the 142 failures identified in 107 patients, 112 (78.9%) were individual failures, and 30 (21.1%) were system failures. One-hundred forty-seven action items were implemented including education initiatives, establishing criteria for interdisciplinary consultation, resolving equipment inadequacies, removing high risk medications from formulary, restructuring physician handoffs, and individual practitioner counseling/training.   CONCLUSIONS Development of a QI-driven M&M conference allowed us to categorize complications beyond surgical or patient disease categories, ensuring added focus on system solutions and a reliable accountability structure to ensure implementation of assigned interventions intended to address failures. This may lead to improvement in the processes of patient care.
Of graduating obstetrics and gynecology residents, 40% apply for fellowship training and this percentage is likely to increase. The fellowship interview process creates a substantial financial burden on candidates as well as significant challenges in scheduling the multiple interviews for residents, residency programs, and fellowship programs. Coverage with relatively short lead time is needed for some resident rotations, multiple residents may request time off during overlapping time periods, and applicants may not be able to interview based on conflicting interview dates or the inability to find coverage from other residents for their clinical responsibilities. To address these issues, we propose that each subspecialty fellowship within obstetrics and gynecology be allocated a specified and limited time period to schedule their interviews with minimal overlap between subspecialties. Furthermore, programs in close geographic areas should attempt to coordinate their interview dates. This will allow residents to plan their residency rotation schedules far in advance to minimize the impact on rotations that are less amenable to time away from their associated clinical duties, and decrease the numbers of residents needing time off for interviews during any one time period. In addition, a series of formal discussions should take place between subspecialties related to these issues as well as within subspecialties to facilitate coordination.
OBJECTIVE To describe the scope and outcomes of elective pediatric surgical procedures performed during combat operations.   BACKGROUND The care of patients in Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) includes elective humanitarian surgery on Afghan children. Unlike military reports of pediatric trauma care, there is little outcome data on elective pediatric surgical care during combat operations to guide treatment decisions.   METHODS All elective surgical procedures performed on patients16years of age from May 2012 through April 2014 were reviewed. Procedures were grouped by surgical specialty and were further classified as single-stage (SINGLE) or multi-stage (MULTI). The primary endpoint was post-operative complications requiring further surgery, and the secondary endpoint was post-operative follow up.   RESULTS A total of 311 elective pediatric surgical procedures were performed on 239 patients. Surgical specialties included general surgery, orthopedics, otolaryngology, ophthalmology, neurosurgery and urology. 178 (57%) were SINGLE while 133 (43%) were MULTI. Fifteen patients required 32 procedures for post-operative complications. Approximately half of all procedures were performed as outpatient surgery. Median length of stay for inpatient was 2.2days, and all patients survived to discharge. The majority of patients returned for outpatient follow-up (207, 87%), and 4 patients (1.7%) died after discharge.   CONCLUSIONS Elective pediatric surgical care in a forward deployed setting is feasible; however, limitations in resources for perioperative care and rehabilitation mandate prudent patient selection particularly with respect to procedures that require prolonged post-operative care. Formal guidance on the process of patient selection for elective humanitarian surgery in these settings is needed.
BACKGROUND A pilot rounding surgeon of the week (SOW) program was implemented in our institution on July 2013 to improve patient care through focused attending rounds. The purpose of this study was to assess the impact of the SOW.   METHODS We performed a descriptive retrospective study from a single, large-volume academic center. Data were collected from July to December 2013 (post-SOW) and compared to July to December 2012 (pre-SOW). Outcomes included patient safety (safety reports) and team productivity (billing data). We also evaluated nursing satisfaction through a 10-point Likert scale survey.   RESULTS The total number of patient safety complaints decreased after the SOW (37 pre-SOW versus 27 post-SOW). Work relative value units (wRVUs) increased by 8% while nonoperative billing increased by 15%. Twenty of the daytime nursing staff completed the survey and overall satisfaction with the SOW was 8.3. Twelve were employed prior to the SOW and, when analyzed independently, the proportion of employees satisfied with nursing to physician communication was higher after the SOW (55% pre-SOW vs. 83% post-SOW, p=0.13) as was perception of parental satisfaction (33% vs. 75%, p=0.04).   CONCLUSIONS The SOW program appears to improve patient safety as evidenced by a decrease in patient safety events. Additionally, the SOW program led to higher ancillary staffing satisfaction and perceived parental satisfaction without decreasing revenue. This study suggests that the SOW may be a beneficial program that could be considered at other large-volume institutions.
OBJECTIVE To describe the future supply and demand for pediatric surgeons using a physician supply model to determine what the future supply of pediatric surgeons will be over the next decade and a half and to compare that projected supply with potential indicators of demand and the growth of other subspecialties.   BACKGROUND Anticipating the supply of physicians and surgeons in the future has met with varying levels of success. However, there remains a need to anticipate supply given the rapid growth of specialty and subspecialty fellowships. This analysis is intended to support decision making on the size of future fellowships in pediatric surgery.   METHODS The model used in the study is an adaptation of the FutureDocs physician supply and need tool developed to anticipate future supply and need for all physician specialties. Data from national inventories of physicians by specialty, age, sex, activity, and location are combined with data from residency and fellowship programs and accrediting bodies in an agent-based or microsimulation projection model that considers movement into and among specialties. Exits from practice and the geographic distribution of physician and the patient population are also included in the model. Three scenarios for the annual entry into pediatric surgery fellowships (28, 34, and 56) are modeled and their effects on supply through 2030 are presented.   RESULTS The FutureDocs model predicts a very rapid growth of the supply of surgeons who treat pediatric patients-including general pediatric surgeon and focused subspecialties. The supply of all pediatric surgeons will grow relatively rapidly through 2030 under current conditions. That growth is much faster than the rate of growth of the pediatric population. The volume of complex surgical cases will likely match this population growth rate meaning there will be many more surgeons trained for those procedures. The current entry rate into pediatric surgery fellowships (34 per year) will result in a slowing of growth after 2025, a rate of 56 will generate a continued growth through 2030 with a likely plateau after 2035.   CONCLUSIONS The rate of entry into pediatric surgery will continue to exceed population growth through 2030 under two likely scenarios. The very rapid anticipated growth in focused pediatric subspecialties will likely prove challenging to surgeons wishing to maintain their skills with complex cases as a larger and more diverse group of surgeons will also seek to care for many of the conditions and patients which the general pediatric surgeons and general surgeons now see. This means controlling the numbers of pediatric surgery fellowships in a way that recognizes problems with distribution, the volume of cases available to maintain proficiency, and the dynamics of retirement and shifts into other specialty practice.
BACKGROUND In East, Central and Southern Africa accurate data on the current surgeon workforce have previously been limited. In order to ensure that the workforce required for sustainable delivery of surgical care is put in place, accurate data on the number, specialty and distribution of specialist-trained surgeons are crucial for all stakeholders in surgery and surgical training in the region.   METHODS The surgical workforce in each of the ten member countries of the College of Surgeons of East, Central and Southern Africa (COSECSA) was determined by gathering and crosschecking data from multiple sources including COSECSA records, medical council registers, local surgical societies records, event attendance lists and interviews of Members and Fellows of COSECSA, and validating this by direct contact with the surgeons identified. This data was recorded and analysed in a cloud-based computerised database, developed as part of a collaboration programme with the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland.   RESULTS A total of 1690 practising surgeons have been identified yielding a regional ratio of 0.53 surgeons per 100,000 population. A majority of surgeons (64혻%) practise in the main commercial city of their country of residence and just 9혻% of surgeons are female. More than half (53혻%) of surgeons in the region are general surgeons.   CONCLUSIONS While there is considerable geographic variation between countries, the regional surgical workforce represents less than 4혻% of the equivalent number in developed countries indicating the magnitude of the human resource challenge to be addressed.
INTRODUCTION The tremendous need for increasing the quantity and quality of global pediatric surgical care in underserved areas has been well documented. Concomitantly there has been a significant increase in interest by pediatric surgeons in helping to relieve this problem through surgical volunteerism. The intent of the article is to serve as a practical guide for pediatric surgeons contemplating or planning a short-term global volunteer endeavor.   METHODS The article is based on the authors' personal experiences and on the published experiences of other volunteers.   FINDINGS The following aspects of volunteerism are discussed: ethical considerations, where and how to go, what and whom to take with you, what to expect in your volunteer locale, and what to do and what to avoid in order to enhance the volunteer experience.   CONCLUSIONS The points discussed in this guide will hopefully make the volunteer activity one that results in greatly improved immediate and long term surgical care for children and improves the chances that the activity will be a meaningful, pleasant, and productive experience for both the volunteer and the host physician.
OBJECTIVE Although it has been suggested that social-networking services such as Twitter could be used as a tool for medical education, few studies have evaluated its use in this setting. We sought to evaluate the use of Twitter as a novel educational tool in a medical school surgery clerkship. We hypothesized that Twitter can enhance the educational experience of clerkship students.   DESIGN We performed a prospective observational study. We created a new Twitter account, and delivered approximately 3 tweets per day consisting of succinct, objective surgical facts. Students were administered pre- and postclerkship surveys, and aggregate test scores were obtained for participating students and historical controls.   SETTING Required third-year medical school surgery clerkship at the University of Michigan large tertiary-care academic hospital.   PARTICIPANTS Third-year medical students.   RESULTS The survey response rate was 94%. Preclerkship surveys revealed that most (87%) students have smartphones, and are familiar with Twitter (80% have used before). Following completion of the clerkship, most students (73%) reported using the Twitter tool, and 20% used it frequently. Overall, 59% believed it positively influenced their educational experience and very few believed it had a negative influence (2%). However, many (53%) did not believe it influenced their clerkship engagement. Aggregate mean National Board of Medical Examiners Shelf Examination scores were not significantly different in an analysis of medical student classes completing the clerkship before or after the Twitter tool (p = 0.37).   CONCLUSIONS Most of today's learners are familiar with social media, and own the technology necessary to implement novel educational tools in this platform. Applications such as Twitter can be facile educational tools to supplement and enhance the experience of students on a medical school clerkship.
PURPOSE Recent studies have focused on surgeons' nontechnical skills in the operating room (OR), especially leadership. In an attempt to identify trainee preferences, we explored junior residents' opinions about the OR leadership style of teaching faculty.   METHODS Overall, 20 interns and 20 mid-level residents completed a previously validated survey on the style of leadership they encountered, the style they preferred to receive, and the style they personally employed in the OR. In all, 4 styles were explored; authoritative: leader makes decisions and communicates them firmly; explanatory: leader makes decisions promptly, but explains them fully; consultative: leader consults with trainees when important decisions are made, and delegative: leader puts the problem before the group and makes decisions by majority opinion. Comparisons were completed using chi-square analysis.   RESULTS Junior resident preference for leadership style of attending surgeons in the OR differed from what they encountered. Overall, 62% of residents encountered an authoritative leadership style; however, only 9% preferred this (p < 0.001). Instead, residents preferred explanatory (53%) or consultative styles (41%). Preferences differed by postgraduate year. Although 40% of interns preferred a consultative style, 50% of mid-level residents preferred explanatory leadership.   CONCLUSIONS Junior resident preference of leadership style in the OR differs from what they actually encounter. This has the potential to create unwanted tension and may erode team performance. Awareness of this difference provides an opportunity for an educational intervention directed at both attendings and trainees.
Mentorship is foundational to surgical training, with recognized benefits for both mentees and mentors. The University of Ottawa General Surgery Mentorship Program was developed as a module-based group facilitation program to support inclusive personal and professional development of junior general surgery residents. The group format provided an opportunity for both vertical and horizontal mentorship relationships between staff mentors and resident mentees. Perceived benefits of program participants were evaluated at the conclusion of the first year of the program. The program was well-received by staff and resident participants and may provide a time-efficient and inclusive mentorship structure with the additional benefit of peer support. We review the development and implementation of the program to date and share our mentorship experience to encourage the growth of formal mentorship opportunities within general surgery training programs.
BACKGROUND Training as a physician has been demonstrated to be a source of personal and familial distress; we sought to assess and analyze the holistic impact of a surgical career by examining nonphysical effects on surgeons and their families.   METHODS The MEDLINE database was searched systematically from inception to June 2014 in accordance with PRISMA guidance. Two reviewers independently reviewed articles using predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria.   RESULTS We found 71 articles that met our inclusion criteria. Fifty-four studies (77%) assessed burnout with a reported prevalence of 12.6-58% (mean, 34.6%; SD, 11.0%). Workload was found to be the most significant contributor to burnout. Rates of psychiatric morbidity ranged between 16 and 37% (mean, 25.3%; SD, 6.6%) and rates of suicidal ideation, especially among more senior surgeons and those involved in malpractice, was higher than the general population. Depression was reported in 30.8-37.5% (mean, 33.9%; SD, 3.1%). All were strongly associated with workload and burnout, indicative of a likely synergistic effect. Other risk factors included junior status and younger age, poor professional relationships, work-home conflicts and poor work-life balance. Protective factors included marriage or spousal support, career satisfaction, autonomy, and academic practice.   CONCLUSION Surgeons have a high prevalence of burnout, psychiatric morbidity, and depression, with suicidal ideation rates higher than the general population. Professional factors contribute significantly to these phenomena. Although personal and familial factors are protective, they are eroded by the overwhelming impact of professional factors; nevertheless, career satisfaction rates remain high.
Importance Vascular surgeons possess a skill set that allows them to assist nonvascular surgeons in the operating room. Existing studies on this topic are limited in their scope to specific procedures or clinical settings.   Objective To describe the broad spectrum of cases that require intraoperative vascular surgery assistance.   Design, Setting, and Participants A retrospective medical record review of patients undergoing nonvascular surgery procedures that required intraoperative vascular surgery assistance between January 2010 and June 2014 at a single urban academic medical center (Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago, Illinois). Trauma patients and inferior vena cava filter placements were excluded.   Exposures Intraoperative vascular surgery assistance stratified by need for vascular reconstruction, anatomic location, urgency of consultation, and timing of consultation.   Main Outcomes and Measures A composite primary end point of death, myocardial infarction, or unplanned return to the operating room within 30 days of the index operation.   Results We identified 299 patients involving 12 different surgical subspecialties that met the study criteria. The cohort included 148 men (49.5%) and had a mean (SD) age of 56.4 (15) years. Most consultations occurred preoperatively (n = 224; 74.9%; odds ratio, 0.04; 95% CI, 0.02-0.08; P<.001) and were elective (n = 212; 70.9%; odds ratio, 0.06; 95% CI, 0.03-0.12; P<.001 ). The indications for vascular surgery assistance were 156 spine exposure (52%), 43 vascular control without hemorrhage (14.4%), 43 control of hemorrhage (14.4%), and 57 vascular reconstruction (19%). Vascular repairs consisted of 13 bypasses (4.3%), 18 patch angioplasties (6.0%), and 79 primary repairs (26.4%). All procedures required open surgical exposure by the vascular surgeon. The incidence of death, myocardial infarction, or unplanned return to the operating room was 11.4% for the cohort with a mortality rate of 1.7%. Patients who required vascular repair had a higher incidence of death, myocardial infarction, or unplanned return to the operating room (17.4% vs 7.9%; P=.01). These cases resulted in an additional 1371.46 work relative value units per year.   Conclusions and Relevance Vascular surgeons provide crucial operative support across multiple specialties. Although vascular reconstruction is not needed in most patients, it may be associated with increased risk of death, myocardial infarction, or unplanned return to the operating room. The high proportion of emergent cases that require vascular repair demonstrates the importance of having vascular surgeons immediately available at the hospital. To continue providing this valuable service, vascular surgery trainees need to continue to learn the full breadth of open anatomic exposures and vascular reconstruction.
INTRODUCTION The aim of this study was to inform health policy by demonstrating the benefits of an electronic referral (e-referral) system to study inpatient referrals to urology departments.   METHODS London North West Healthcare NHS Trust has over 800 beds and several secondary and tertiary care services. In January 2014, we designed an e-referral form to requisition urology input for in-patients using the Integrated Clinical Environment (ICE) platform. We retrospectively reviewed e-referral records from February to December 2014 for patient demography, the referring service and disease groups triggering a referral.   RESULTS There were 1192 referrals. There was a median of 107 e-referrals per month (IQR 97-123, range 91-132) and 4 per day (IQR 2-6, range 0-12). Weekend e-referrals were 127 (median 1, IQR 0-2, range 0-5) with 1065 e-referrals on weekdays (median 4, IQR 3-6, range 0-12). A total of 848 (71.1혻%) patients were male, and 344 (28.9혻%) were female. Patients' mean age was 63 (SD 21) years. Almost half (550, 46혻%) were acute referrals. Amongst the acute referrals, the majority (466, 84.7혻%) arose from A&E. From the non-acute conditions, 381 (59.3혻%) patients were from the medical specialities and 246 (38.3혻%) from surgical disciplines. The three largest disease categories were urolithiasis (287, 24.1혻%), haematuria (185, 15.5혻%) and for ex-catheterisation (102, 8.6혻%). A qualitative review showed the strengths and weaknesses of the system, enabling improvements in operational efficiency.   CONCLUSION An e-referral system monitors activity accurately. Systemic improvement in referral pathways would lead to better patient care and enable services to factor in the unseen component of workload and prompt realistic staffing.
BACKGROUND Several surgeon characteristics are associated with the use of sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) for breast cancer. No studies have systematically examined the relative contribution of both surgeon and hospital factors on receipt of SLNB.   OBJECTIVE To evaluate the relationship between surgeon and hospital characteristics, including a novel claims-based classification of hospital commitment to cancer care (HC), and receipt of SLNB for breast cancer, a marker of quality care.   DATA SOURCES/STUDY DESIGN Observational prospective survey study was performed in a population-based cohort of Medicare beneficiaries who underwent incident invasive breast cancer surgery, linked to Medicare claims, state tumor registries, American Hospital Association Annual Survey Database, and American Medical Association Physician Masterfile. Multiple logistic regression models determined surgeon and hospital characteristics that were predictors of SLNB.   RESULTS Of the 1703 women treated at 471 different hospitals by 947 different surgeons, 65% underwent an initial SLNB. Eleven percent of hospitals were high-volume and 58% had a high commitment to cancer care. In separate adjusted models, both high HC (odds ratio [OR] 1.53, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.12-2.10) and high hospital volume (HV, OR 1.90, 95% CI 1.28-2.79) were associated with SLNB. Adding surgeon factors to a model including both HV and HC minimally modified the effect of high HC (OR 1.34, 95% CI 0.95-1.88) but significantly weakened the effect of high HV (OR 1.25, 95% CI 0.82-1.90). Surgeon characteristics (higher volume and percentage of breast cancer cases) remained strong independent predictors of SLNB, even when controlling for various hospital characteristics.   CONCLUSIONS Hospital factors are associated with receipt of SLNB but surgeon factors have a stronger association. Since regionalization of breast cancer care in the U.S. is unlikely to occur, efforts to improve the surgical care and outcomes of breast cancer patients must focus on optimizing patient access to SLNB by ensuring hospitals have the necessary resources and training to perform SLNB, staffing hospitals with surgeons who specialize/focus in breast cancer and referring patients who do not have access to SLNB to an experienced center.
BACKGROUND Over the past 2혻decades, researchers have recognized the value of qualitative research. Little has been done to characterize its application to surgery. We describe characteristics and overall prevalence of qualitative surgical research.   METHODS We searched PubMed and CINAHL using 'surgery' and 7 qualitative methodology terms. Four researchers extracted information; a fifth researcher reviewed 10% of abstracts for inter-rater reliability.   RESULTS A total of 3,112 articles were reviewed. Removing duplicates, 28% were relevant (N혻=혻878; 觀혻=혻0.70). Common qualitative methodologies included phenomenology (34.3%) and grounded theory (30.2%). Interviews were the most common data collection method (81.9%) of patients (64%) within surgical oncology (15.4%). Postdischarge was the most commonly studied topic (30.8%). Overall, 41% of studies were published in nursing journals, while 8% were published in surgical journals. More than half of studies were published since혻2011.   CONCLUSION Results suggest qualitative surgical research is gaining popularity. Most is published in nonsurgical journals, however, utilizing only 2 methodologies (phenomenology, grounded theory). The surgical journals that have published qualitative research had study topics restricted to a handful of surgical specialties. Additional surgical qualitative research should take advantage of a greater variety of approaches to provide insight into rare phenomena and social context.
BACKGROUND Enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS), guidelines entail a strategy of perioperative management proven to hasten postoperative recovery and reduce complications in adult populations. Relatively few studies have investigated the applicability of this paradigm to pediatric populations. Our objective was to perform a systematic review of existing evidence regarding the use and efficacy of enhanced recovery protocols (ERPs) in the pediatric population.   MATERIALS AND METHODS Data were collected through a PubMed/MEDLINE literature search. Study eligibility criteria included a pediatric population and implementation of at least four components of published ERAS Society recommendations.   RESULTS One retrospective and four prospective cohort studies evaluating children undergoing gastrointestinal, urologic, and thoracic surgeries were identified. The overall quality of reporting was fair with few studies acknowledging limitations and bias and inconsistent outcome reporting. Studies included six or fewer interventions compared to 20 recommended interventions in most adult ERAS Society guidelines. None of the studies were well controlled. Nevertheless, these studies suggest that ERPs applied to the appropriate pediatric surgical populations may be associated with decreased length of stay, decreased narcotic use, and no detectable increase in complications.   CONCLUSIONS There is a paucity of high-quality literature evaluating implementation of ERPs in pediatric populations. The limited literature available indicates that ERPs would be safe and potentially effective. More studies are needed to assess the efficacy of ERPs in pediatric surgery.
BACKGROUND In 2007, a partnership was initiated between a small-volume paediatric cardiac surgery unit located in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain, and a large-volume cardiac surgery unit located in Milan, Italy. The main goal of this partnership was to provide surgical treatment to children with CHD in the Canary Islands.   METHODS An operative algorithm for performing surgery in elective, urgent, and emergency cases was adopted by the this joint programme. Demographic and in-hospital variables were collected from the medical records of all the patients who had undergone surgical intervention for CHD from January, 2009 to March, 2013. Data were introduced into the congenital database of the European Congenital Heart Surgeons Association Congenital Database and the database was interrogated.   RESULTS In total, 65 surgical mission trips were performed during the period of this study. The European Congenital Heart Surgeons Association Congenital Database documented 214 total patients with a mean age at operation of 36.45 months, 316 procedures in total with 198 cardiopulmonary bypass cases, 46 non-cardiopulmonary bypass cases, 26 cardiovascular cases without cardiopulmonary bypass, 22 miscellaneous other types of cases, 16 interventional cardiology cases, six thoracic cases, one non-cardiac, non-thoracic procedure on a cardiac patient with cardiac anaesthesia, and one extracorporeal membrane oxygenation case. The 30-day mortality was 6.07% (13 patients).   CONCLUSIONS A joint programme between a small-volume centre and a large-volume centre may represent a valid and reproducible model for safe paediatric cardiac surgery in the context of a peripheral region.
BACKGROUND All surgical deaths in Queensland, Australia are reviewed by external surgeon peers, and clinical events are recorded. The study objective was to classify clinical events in surgical patients who died.   METHODS Deaths notified to the Queensland Audit of Surgical Mortality between 2007 and 2013 were assessed by surgeons' peers who decided whether a clinical event occurred. The most serious clinical event per patient was analyzed.   RESULTS Peer surgeons reviewed 4,816 deaths. Most patients (70.7%) had no clinical event. Events were preventable in 58% of patients and less than 1 in 10 events was severe. The most frequent events were classified as patient assessment (34.5%), suboptimal therapy (15.3%), and delays (15.1%).   CONCLUSIONS Peer review of all surgical deaths identifies preventable clinical events and provides opportunities to improve decision making, better therapy and reduce delay in implementing appropriate surgical care. Review feedback to surgeons and other stakeholders should improve patient safety and quality.
OBJECTIVES Generational changes in lifestyle expectations, working environments and the feminisation of the medical workforce have seen an increased demand in postgraduate less than full-time training (LTFT). Despite this, concerns remain regarding access to, and information about, flexible training for surgeons. This study aimed to assess the opinions and experiences of LTFT for surgical trainees.   DESIGN Prospective, questionnaire-based cross-sectional study.   SETTING/PARTICIPANTS An electronic, self-administered questionnaire was distributed in the UK and Republic of Ireland through mailing lists via the Association of Surgeons in Training and British Orthopedic Trainee Association.   RESULTS Overall, 876 completed responses were received, representing all grades of trainee across all 10 surgical specialties. Median age was 33뀂ears and 63.4% were female. Of those who had undertaken LTFT, 92.5% (148/160) were female. Most worked 60% of a full-time post (86/160, 53.8%). The reasons for either choosing or considering LTFT were childrearing (82.7%), caring for a dependent (12.6%) and sporting commitments (6.8%). Males were less likely to list childrearing than females (64.9% vs 87.6%; p<0.0001). Only 38% (60/160) found the application process easy and 53.8% (86/160) experienced undermining behaviour from workplace staff as a result of undertaking LTFT. Of all respondents, an additional 53.7% (385/716) would consider LTFT in future; 27.5% of which were male (106/385). Overall, only 9.9% of all respondents rated current LTFT information as adequate. Common sources of information were other trainees (47.3%), educational supervisors (20.6%) and local postgraduate school website (19.5%).   CONCLUSIONS Over half of surgical trainees working LTFT have experienced undermining behaviour as a result of their LTFT. Despite a reported need for LTFT in both genders, this remains difficult to organise, access to useful information is poor and negative attitudes among staff remain. Recommendations are made to provide improved support and information for those wishing to pursue LTFT.
INTRODUCTION The Arbitration Board for Medical Liability Issues of the Medical Association of North Germany ('Norddeutsche Schlichtungsstelle') is responsible for 10 federal states in Germany (Berlin, Brandenburg, Bremen, Hamburg, Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Lower Saxony, Saarland, Saxony-Anhalt, Schleswig-Holstein and Thuringia) and is the largest arbitration board in Germany. The data available from the Norddeutsche Schlichtungsstelle provides an insight into sources of malpractice during the treatment of reduction mammoplasty.   MATERIAL UND METHODS We analysed patient request, expert opinions prepared by independent physicians on behalf of the Norddeutsche Schlichtungsstelle and the final verdicts of 88 arbitration proceedings after breast reduction mammoplasties performed between 2000 and 2007. This data allows for each case to be addressed from different viewpoints. Furthermore we analysed the statistical data entered into the Medical Error Reporting System by the arbitration board.   RESULTS Among the 88 patient requests after reduction mammoplasty, the arbitration board found a causal relationship between damage caused to a patient's health and medical malpractice in 37 cases. Therefore, 42% of requests resulted in a liability case. This is a higher rate than that of general arbitration proceedings, where only in 24% of all cases a causal relationship is confirmed by the Norddeutsche Schlichtungsstelle. Most patients were operated on by gynaecologists. In 92% of liability cases, mistakes happened during the planning and the performance of the surgical procedure, mainly during planning (65%) and surgical incisions (41%). The patients mainly complained about scars (78%), asymmetry (68%) and skin necrosis of the areola (24%). Financial disadvantage was mentioned less often (46%) than psychological stress (70%).   DISCUSSION The higher rate of liability claims may be due to the fact the surgical procedures changing the shape of breasts are more complex than generally expected. Not only the surgery itself, but also the adequate planning and aftercare are of predominant importance for patient satisfaction. All these factors lead to the relatively high rate of medical malpractice in plastic aesthetic breast surgery. Also the communication factor should not be underestimated.
A safe application of modern surgical technology and computer-assisted surgery devices is based on an operation by adequately trained surgeons who are familiar with the benefits and limitations of the devices. We analyzed the in-depth interviews with seven Spanish and 10 German surgeons. Together with other studies, this analysis highlights the need for specific training in technological competence for surgeons. One way to train technological competence is to help surgeons understanding the basic principles of medical devices as well as explaining the basic concepts of risk analysis and risk management. Based on this premise, a stage model for risk assessment was developed and adapted for the training of surgeons. This was developed further into a train the trainer (TTT) concept, which was then evaluated for two example cases. During TTT-training, the trainers (expert surgeons) performed a risk analysis for several medical devices. Afterwards, the trainers organized a surgical workshop for surgical trainees (resident surgeons), in which high-fidelity simulators and the original medical devices were used. The results showed that the surgeons performed the risk analysis correctly with the stage model and afterwards were able to successfully apply the results in the workshop context.
Ranking of surgeons and hospitals focuses on procedure volume and hospitality. The National Surgical Quality Improvement Program provides vetted outcomes of surgical quality and therefore can direct improvement. Our statewide collaborative's analysis creates personalized surgeon data to drive quality improvement. Statewide National Surgical Quality Improvement Program data generated specific measures from 103,656 general/vascular cases and identified individual surgeon's outcome of occurrences and length of procedure. We assumed a normal distribution and called the top 2.5 per cent as exemplars and the bottom 2.5 per cent as outliers. For length of operation, a standard duration was calculated, and identified outliers as longer than the 95th percentile of the upper confidence interval/procedure. Since 2009, sharing best practice reduced statewide mortality rate by 31.5 per cent and postoperative morbidity by 33.3 per cent. For length of surgery, long outliers have more complications (urinary tract infection, organ space/surgical site infection, sepsis, septic shock, prolonged intubation, pneumonia, deep venous thrombosis, deep incisional infection, and wound disruption). No significant trends in surgeon performance were seen over 24 months. A statewide collaborative has resulted in substantial risk-adjusted reductions in surgical morbidity and mortality. These results of the individual surgeon demonstrate best practices are shared, a proven tool for improvement in our collaborative.
OBJECTIVES Surgery residency serves 2 purposes-prepare graduates for general surgery (GS) practice or postresidency surgical fellowship, leading to specialty surgical practice (SS). This study was undertaken to elucidate factors influencing career choice for these 2 groups.   METHODS All US allopathic surgery residency graduates from 2009 to 2013 (n = 5512) were surveyed by the American Board of Surgery regarding confidence, autonomy, and reasons for career selection between GS and SS. Surveys were distributed by mail in November 2013, with follow-up mailings to initial nonrespondents.   RESULTS Sixty-one percent (3354) of graduates completed the survey; 26% pursued GS, and 74% SS. GS expressed greater levels of confidence than SS across the common surgical procedures queried. Confidence increased with each year after completion of residency for GS but not SS. The decision to pursue GS or SS was made during residency by 77% and 74%, respectively. Fifty-seven percent of those who chose GS indicated that a GS mentor significantly influenced their decision. GS rated procedural variety, opportunity for practice autonomy, choice of practice location, and influence of a mentor as reasons to pursue GS practice. SS listed control over scope of practice, prestige, salary, and specialty interest as reasons to pursue SF. Both groups expressed a high degree of satisfaction with their career choice (GS, 94%; SS, 90%).   CONCLUSIONS Most graduates who pursue GS practice are confident and content. The decision to pursue GS is strongly influenced by a GS mentor. Lack of confidence may be a more significant factor for choosing SS. These findings suggest opportunities for improvements in confidence and mentorship during residency.
IMPORTANCE Surgical disease is a global health priority, and improving surgical care requires local capacity building. Single-institution partnerships and surgical missions are logistically limited. The Alliance for Global Clinical Training (hereafter the Alliance) is a consortium of US surgical departments that aims to provide continuous educational support at the Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania (MUHAS). To our knowledge, the Alliance is the first multi-institutional international surgical collaboration to be described in the literature.   OBJECTIVE To assess if the Alliance is effectively responding to the educational needs of MUHAS and Muhimbili National Hospital surgeons.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS During an initial 13-month program (July 1, 2013, to August 31, 2014), faculty and resident teams from 3 US academic surgical programs rotated at MUHAS as physicians and teachers for 1 month each. To assess the value of the project, we administered anonymous surveys.   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Anonymous surveys were analyzed on a 5-point Likert-type scale. Free-text answers were analyzed for common themes.   RESULTS During the study period, Alliance members were present at MUHAS for 8 months (1 month each). At the conclusion of the first year of collaboration, 15 MUHAS faculty and 22 MUHAS residents completed the survey. The following 6 areas of educational needs were identified: formal didactics, increased clinical mentorship, longer-term Alliance presence, equitable distribution of teaching time, improved coordination and language skills, and reciprocal exchange rotations at US hospitals. The MUHAS faculty and residents agreed that Alliance members contributed to improved patient care and resident education.   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE A multi-institutional international surgical partnership is possible and leads to perceived improvements in patient care and resident learning. Alliance surgeons must continue to focus on training Tanzanian surgeons. Improving the volunteer surgeons' Swahili-language skills would be an asset. Future efforts should provide more teaching coverage, equitably distribute educational support among all MUHAS surgeons, and collaboratively develop a formal surgical curriculum.
OBJECTIVE Residency program directors have increasingly expressed concern about the preparedness of some medical school graduates for residency training. The Association of American Medical Colleges recently defined 13 core entrustable professional activities (EPAs) for entering residency that residents should be able to perform without direct supervision on the first day of training. It is not known how students' perception of their competency with these activities compares with that of surgery program directors'.   DESIGN Cross-sectional survey.   SETTING All surgery training programs in the United States.   PARTICIPANTS All program directors (PDs) in the Association of Program Directors in Surgery (APDS) database (n = 222) were invited to participate in an electronic survey, and 119 complete responses were received (53.6%). Among the respondents, 83% were men and 35.2% represented community hospital programs. PDs' responses were compared with questions asking students to rate their confidence in performance of each EPA from the Association of American Medical Colleges Graduation Questionnaire (95% response).   RESULTS PDs rated their confidence in residents' performance without direct supervision for every EPA significantly lower when compared with the rating by graduating students. Although PDs' ratings continued to be lower than students' ratings, PDs from academic programs (those associated with a medical school) gave higher ratings than those from community programs. PDs generally ranked all 13 EPAs as important to being a trustworthy physician. PDs from programs without preliminary residents gave higher ratings for confidence with EPA performance as compared with PDs with preliminary residents. Among PDs with preliminary residents, there were equal numbers of those who agreed and those who disagreed that there are no identifiable differences between categorical and preliminary residents (42.7% and 41.8%, respectively).   CONCLUSIONS A large gap exists between confidence in performance of the 13 core EPAs for entering residency without direct supervision for graduating medical students and surgery program directors. Both the groups identified several key areas for improvement that may be addressed by medical school curricular interventions or expanding surgical boot camps in hopes to improve resident performance and patient safety.
OBJECTIVE In underserved communities around the world, inguinal hernias represent a significant burden of surgically-treatable disease. With traditional models of international surgical assistance limited to mission trips, a standardized framework to strengthen local healthcare systems is lacking. We established a surgical education model using web-based tools and wearable technology to allow for long-term proctoring and assessment in a resource-poor setting. This is a feasibility study examining wearable technology and web-based performance rating tools for long-term proctoring in an international setting.   METHODS Using the Lichtenstein inguinal hernia repair as the index surgical procedure, local surgeons in Paraguay and Brazil were trained in person by visiting international expert trainers using a formal, standardized teaching protocol. Surgeries were captured in real-time using Google Glass and transmitted wirelessly to an online video stream, permitting real-time observation and proctoring by mentoring surgeon experts in remote locations around the world. A system for ongoing remote evaluation and support by experienced surgeons was established using the Lichtenstein-specific Operative Performance Rating Scale.   RESULTS Data were collected from 4 sequential training operations for surgeons trained in both Paraguay and Brazil. With continuous internet connectivity, live streaming of the surgeries was successful. The Operative Performance Rating Scale was immediately used after each operation. Both surgeons demonstrated proficiency at the completion of the fourth case.   CONCLUSIONS A sustainable model for surgical training and proctoring to empower local surgeons in resource-poor locations and 'train trainers' is feasible with wearable technology and web-based communication. Capacity building by maximizing use of local resources and expertise offers a long-term solution to reducing the global burden of surgically-treatable disease.
BACKGROUND We reviewed the current scientific data and opinions from thought leaders in the field of surgery in the elderly population and queried whether a new society should be formed.   METHODS The science of geriatric surgery (GS) was reviewed, including topics scientific sessions focused on GS. A town hall meeting was held, which included geriatric surgical scholars. A survey was created to define the interest in GS as a specialty society was sent to surgical scholars.   RESULTS As the volume of GS scholarly work has increased, the focus of geriatric science has migrated toward clinical studies on frailty and geriatric syndromes. Our town hall meeting outlined the need for a multidisciplinary GS team. Our survey documented more interest in multidisciplinary sessions at national meetings rather than a new, unique society.   CONCLUSIONS GS as a discipline is a multidisciplinary practice. Our data suggest that this unique characteristic speaks to the development of a clinical community rather than an independent society.
BACKGROUND As one measure of comparability of student experiences on a 2-month surgery clerkship, scores on the National Board of Medical Examiners Surgery Subject Examination (NSSE) were evaluated against a number of variables.   METHODS NSSE scores for 701 students completing the surgery clerkship over 3.5혻years were analyzed. Students rotated at academic, VA, and community hospitals with 1 month of general surgery paired with 1 month of a surgical subspecialty. The effect of 15 rotation site pairings on NSSE performance was analyzed by analysis of variance. The relationship of site-specific student evaluation variables and NSSE scores was examined by stepwise multivariate linear regression.   RESULTS No statistical differences were demonstrated between NSSE scores and site-specific parameters of duty hours, resident participation, or type of hospital, nor between NSSE scores and paired sites constituting the overall clerkship experience.   CONCLUSION Performance on the NSSE was not impacted by any assigned paired sites, supporting comparability of overall clerkship experiences.
BACKGROUND Given the large burden of surgical conditions and the crosscutting nature of surgery, scale-up of basic surgical services is crucial to health-system strengthening. The Lancet Commission on Global Surgery proposed that, to meet populations' needs, countries should achieve 5000 major operations per 100000 population per year. We modelled the possible scale-up of surgical services in 88 low-income and middle-income countries with a population greater than 1 million from 2012 to 2030 at various rates and quantified the associated costs.   METHODS Major surgery includes any intervention within an operating room involving tissue manipulation and anaesthesia. We used estimates for the number of major operations achieved per country annually and the number of operating rooms per region, and data from Mongolia and Mexico for trends in the number of operations. Unit costs included a cost per operation, proxied by caesarean section cost estimates; hospital construction data were used to estimate cost per operating room construction. We determined the year by which each country would achieve the Commission's target. We modelled three scenarios for the scale-up rate: actual rates (5쨌1% per year) and two 'aspirational' rates, the rates achieved by Mongolia (8쨌9% annual) and Mexico (22쨌5% annual). We subsequently estimated the associated costs.   FINDINGS About half of the 88 countries would achieve the target by 2030 at actual rates of improvements, with up to two-thirds if the rate were increased to Mongolian rates. We estimate the total costs of achieving scale-up at US$300-420 billion (95% UI 190-600 billion) over 2012-30, which represents 4-8% of total annual health expenditures among low-income and lower middle-income countries and 1% among upper middle-income countries.   INTERPRETATION Scale-up of surgical services will not reach the target of 5000 operations per 100000 by 2030 in about half of low-income and middle-income countries without increased funding, which countries and the international community must seek to achieve expansion of quality surgical services.   FUNDING None.
BACKGROUND Approximately 150 million individuals worldwide face catastrophic expenditure each year from medical costs alone, and the non-medical costs of accessing care increase that number. The proportion of this expenditure related to surgery is unknown. Because the World Bank has proposed elimination of medical impoverishment by 2030, the effect of surgical conditions on financial catastrophe should be quantified so that any financial risk protection mechanisms can appropriately incorporate surgery.   METHODS To estimate the global incidence of catastrophic expenditure due to surgery, we built a stochastic model. The income distribution of each country, the probability of requiring surgery, and the medical and non-medical costs faced for surgery were incorporated. Sensitivity analyses were run to test the robustness of the model.   FINDINGS 3쨌7 billion people (posterior credible interval 3쨌2-4쨌2 billion) risk catastrophic expenditure if they need surgery. Each year, 81쨌3 million people (80쨌8-81쨌7 million) worldwide are driven to financial catastrophe-32쨌8 million (32쨌4-33쨌1 million) from the costs of surgery alone and 48쨌5 million (47쨌7-49쨌3) from associated non-medical costs. The burden of catastrophic expenditure is highest in countries of low and middle income; within any country, it falls on the poor. Estimates were sensitive to the definition of catastrophic expenditure and the costs of care. The inequitable burden distribution was robust to model assumptions.   INTERPRETATION Half the global population is at risk of financial catastrophe from surgery. Each year, surgical conditions cause 81 million individuals to face catastrophic expenditure, of which less than half is attributable to medical costs. These findings highlight the need for financial risk protection for surgery in health-system design.   FUNDING MGS received partial funding from NIH/NCI R25CA92203.
BACKGROUND The purpose of this study is to compare the compositions of federally funded surgical research between 2003 and 2013, and to assess differences in funding trends between surgery and other medical specialties.   DATA SOURCES The National Institutes of Health (NIH) Research Portfolio Online Reporting Tool database was queried for grants within core surgical disciplines during 2003 and 2013. Funding was categorized by award type, methodology, and discipline. Application success rates for surgery and 5 nonsurgical departments were trended over time.   CONCLUSIONS Inflation-adjusted NIH funding for surgical research decreased 19% from $270 M in 2003 to $219 M in 2013, with a shift from R-awards to U-awards. Proportional funding to outcomes research almost tripled, while translational research diminished. Nonsurgical departments have increased NIH application volume over the last 10 years; however, surgery's application volume has been stagnant. To preserve surgery's role in innovative research, new efforts are needed to incentivize an increase in application volume.
PURPOSE The European Board of Paediatric Surgery (EBPS) includes a written Part 1 and an oral/practical Part 2 component. The goal of this study was to describe the EBPS examination candidate pool, and to determine factors associated with successfully passing the examination.   METHODS A database including all registered candidates for the EBPS exams since 2005 was constructed. Queried information included demographics, training location, language proficiency, and written/oral scores. Logistic regression analysis was performed to elucidate variables predictive of examination success.   RESULTS Until 2013, a total of 370 candidates registered for the part 1 examination and 147 successfully passed part 2. Pass rates for part 1 were 68, 65, 20, and 0혻% on first, second, third, and forth attempts, respectively. Pass rates for part 2 were 79혻% for both first and second attempts. Training in a single country was associated with passing Part 1 (p혻=혻0.048), while having completed at least some training in an English-speaking country increased the chance of passing Part 2 (p혻<혻0.01).   CONCLUSION The pool of EBPS examination candidates is highly diverse and international. First- and second-attempt pass rates are similar for both parts. Candidates who completed all their training in non-English-speaking countries may wish to consider additional English language practice to increase their chances of success.
BACKGROUND Workplace-based assessments (WBAs) were introduced formally in the UK in 2007. The aim of the study was to describe the use of WBAs by UK surgical trainees and examine variations by training region, specialty, and level of training.   METHODS The database of the Intercollegiate Surgical Curriculum Programme was examined for WBAs between August 2007 and July 2013, with in-depth analysis of 2 periods: August 2011 to July 2012 and August 2012 to July 2013.   RESULTS The numbers of validated WBAs per trainee per year increased more than 7-fold, from median 6 per trainee in 2007 to 2008, to 39 in 2011 to 2012, and 44 in 2012 to 2013. In the period 2011 to 2012, 58.4% of core trainees completed the recommended 40 WBAs, with only 38.1% of specialty trainees achieving 40 validated WBAs. In the period 2012 to 2013, these proportions increased to 67.7% and 57.0% for core and specialty trainees, respectively. Core trainees completed more WBAs per year than specialty trainees in the same training region. London core trainees completed the highest numbers of WBAs in both the periods 2011 to 2012 (median 67) and 2012 to 2013 (median 74). There was a peak in WBAs completed by London specialty trainees in the period 2012 to 2013 (median 63). The most validated WBAs were completed by ST1/CT1 (specialty surgical training year, core surgical training year), with a gradual decrease in median WBAs to ST4, followed by a plateau; in the period 2012 to 2013, there was an increase in WBAs at ST8. Core surgical trainees complete ~50% 'operative' (procedure-based assessment/direct observation of procedural skills) and ~50% 'nonoperative' assessments (case-based discussion/clinical evaluation exercise). During specialty training, procedure-based assessments represented ~46% of WBAs, direct observation of procedural skills 11.2%, case-based discussion ~23%, and clinical evaluation exercise ~15%.   CONCLUSIONS UK surgical trainees are, on an average, undertaking 1 WBA per week. Variation exists in use of WBAs between training regions. Core trainees tend to use the spectrum of WBAs more frequently than their senior colleagues do. Further work is required to examine the role of WBAs in assessment, and engagement and training of trainers in processes and validation of WBAs.
OBJECTIVE To compare hospital indicators before and after implementing an Internal Bed Regulation Committee at a reference hospital.   METHODS It is an quantitative, evaluation, exploratory, descriptive and cross-sectional research. The data was gathered from the hospital administrative reports for the period 2008-2013, provided by the Information Technology Center of the Complexo FAMEMA.   RESULTS The indicators improved after implementation of the Internal Bed Regulation Committee.   CONCLUSION The individuals involved in the process acknowledged the improvement. It is necessary to carry on the regulatory actions, especially in a comprehensive and complex healthcare system, such as the brazilian Sistema 횣nico de Sa첬de.
BACKGROUND The patient safety imperative has raised expectations regarding the responsibility of medical educators and decision makers to ensure that physicians are competent. Ensuring that trainees are ready for independent practice upon graduation is challenged by reduced work hours such that trainees spend less time in the OR and perform fewer cases than desirable.   METHODS The literature on the assessment of technical and non--technical operative skills and professionalism was reviewed in order to make recommendations to identify barriers to evaluation.   DISCUSSION Barriers to documenting performance deficiencies include uncertainty as to what should be documented, and concerns about the negative impact of critical evaluations on faculty popularity. Additional challenges include a lack of clear standards for performance and effective remediation options.   CONCLUSIONS Trainee performance should be evaluated in a rigorous, reliable and meaningful way to ensure that graduates have the skills necessary for safe, independent practice.
OBJECTIVES To study the utilization of balloon catheter dilation (BCD) compared to traditional endoscopic surgery (ESS) in pediatric patients.   STUDY DESIGN Cross-sectional analysis.   SETTING Hospital and freestanding ambulatory surgery centers in California, Florida, Maryland, and New York   SUBJECTS Patients less than 18 years who underwent BCD(316) or ESS(2346), as identified by CPT codes from the State Ambulatory Surgery Databases 2011.   METHODS Patient and facility demographics, mean charges, and operating room time were examined using bivariate and multivariate analyses.   RESULTS A total of 2662 children underwent surgery, with BCD used in 10.6% of maxillary, 8.4% of sphenoid, and 11.8% of frontal procedures. Adjusted analysis found that children with asthma, allergic rhinitis (AR), GERD, or concomitant adenoidectomy were more likely to have BCD compared to patients without these comorbidities, asthma odds ratio (OR) = 1.94 (95% CI, 1.84-3.41), AR OR = 1.77 (95% CI, 1.03-3.07), GERD OR = 2.79 (95% CI, .59-4.90), or without adenoidectomy OR = 2.50 (95% CI, 1.84-3.41). Patients with cystic fibrosis were less likely to have BCD, OR = 0.33 (95% CI, 0.11-0.95). Median charges for patients undergoing maxillary antrostomy alone by BCD (P = .042) or with adenoidectomy (P < .001) were approximately $2100 and $4200 greater than the median of patients undergoing those procedures with ESS. However, operating room time was similar (P = .81) between patients undergoing maxillary antrostomy, regardless of whether BCD was used, but was longer (P < .001) in those undergoing maxillary antrostomy and adenoidectomy when BCD was utilized.   CONCLUSIONS BCD was used in 11.9% of pediatric sinus surgery and had higher average charges with no decrease in OR time compared to procedures that only utilized ESS. Future research is necessary to evaluate whether BCD may lead to improved outcomes and eventually decreased operating room time for pediatric patients with chronic rhinosinusitis.
BACKGROUND Recent years have seen a significant drop in applications to surgical residencies. Existing research has yet to explain how medical students make career decisions. This qualitative study explores students' perceptions of surgery and surgeons, and the influence of stereotypes on career decisions.   METHODS Exploratory questionnaires captured students' perceptions of surgeons and surgery. Questionnaire data informed individual interviews, exploring students' perceptions in depth. Rigorous qualitative interrogation of interviews identified emergent themes from which a cohesive analysis was synthesized.   RESULTS Respondents held uniform stereotypes of surgeons as self-confident and intimidating; surgery was competitive, masculine, and required sacrifice. To succeed in surgery, students felt they must fit these stereotypes, excluding those unwilling, or who felt unable, to conform. Deviating from the stereotypes required displaying such characteristics to a level exceptional even for surgery; consequently, surgery was neither an attractive nor realistic career option.   CONCLUSIONS Strong stereotypes of surgery deterred students from a surgical career. As a field, surgery must actively engage medical students to encourage participation and dispel negative stereotypes that are damaging recruitment into surgery.
BACKGROUND Strong evidence exists associating job satisfaction and risk of burnout with productivity, efficiency, and creativity in many organizations. However no data are available assessing chairs of surgery. This study assessed job satisfaction and risk for burnout of surgical chairs from Europe and North America and identified contributing factors.   METHODS A survey among 650 chairs in surgery from 23 European and 2 North American countries was conducted in 2012. Satisfaction at work was analyzed using the validated Global Job Satisfaction (GJS) instrument and the abbreviated Maslach Burnout Inventory. Additional items targeting personal and environmental factors were included.   RESULTS The rate of chairs reached successfully was 86%, the overall response rate was 29% (188/650), with 1% female. Median age was 58 years. 11% of chairs were dissatisfied with work. Younger age and being fewer years in practice as a chair was associated with higher job satisfaction (P = .054 and P = .003). Surgical specialty with the greatest median GJS score was hepatopancreatobiliary, whereas vascular surgery scored lowest. Chairs desire to devote 20% more of their time on research. Clerical support as well as the ability to be innovative was suggested by 51% and 45%, respectively, to improve job satisfaction. Compared with Europeans, North American chairs were overall more satisfied and would recommend their job to their children.   CONCLUSION North American chairs seem to be more satisfied at work and at less risk for burnout than European chairs. The overall job satisfaction was greater among chairs compared with previously published reports of young, board-certified surgeons or residents (89% vs 87% and 66%, respectively). The superior satisfaction in chairs is strongest related to career achievements, innovation, and lifestyle.
OBJECTIVES The independent impact of individual surgical experience and team familiarity on surgical performance has been widely studied; however, the interplay of these factors and their relative, quantified, contributions to performance is poorly understood. We determined the impact of team familiarity and surgeon, and cumulative team experience on operative efficiency in total knee replacement.   DESIGN Retrospective analysis of all total knee replacements conducted at the host institution in 1996-2009. Multivariate generalised-estimating-equation regression models were used to adjust for patient risk and clustering.   SETTING Tertiary care academic hospital.   PARTICIPANTS All patients undergoing TKR at the host institution in 1996-2009.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Operative efficiency.   RESULTS A total of 4276 total knee replacements were completed by 1163 different surgical teams. The median experience level was 17.6 years for consultant surgeons and 3.7 years for trainee surgeons. After patient-risk adjustment, consultant surgical experience (p<0.0001), trainee surgical experience (p<0.05), cumulative team operative experience (p<0.0001) and team familiarity (p<0.0001) were associated with significant reductions in operative time. Surgical experience and team familiarity demonstrated concave and linear relationships with operative time, respectively. For a consultant surgeon, the expected reduction in operative time after 25 years in practice was 51뎜in, compared to a 21-min reduction over the span of 40 collaborations with the same team members.   CONCLUSIONS Surgical experience and team familiarity display important and distinct relationships with operative time in total knee replacement. Appreciation of this interplay may serve to guide implementation and allocation of procedure-specific quality improvement strategies in surgery.
BACKGROUND Is a child who presents with a possible non-acute surgical complaint a welcome prospect? Unavoidable deliberations follow: normal versus abnormal, common versus exotic, routine versus urgent, investigate or not, and reassurance versus referral. Delayed or inadequately investigated referrals are uncommon in general paediatric surgery; rather, those that may be unnecessary, inappropriately ascribed as 'urgent' or over-investigated are more commonplace.   OBJECTIVE This article seeks to optimise a general practitioner's assessment of children with surgical presentations to ensure any resulting paediatric surgery referrals are necessary, timely and appropriately investigated.   DISCUSSION Common, non-acute complaints presenting in childhood, including testicular maldescent, inguinal hernia and hydrocoele, non-retractile foreskin, and abdominal wall herniae, are discussed in this article. Each summary outlines the basis of the complaint, recommended pre-referral work-up and typical management of these paediatric surgery referrals. Online guidelines may be useful (eg www.rch.org.au/kidsconnect/prereferral_guidelines).
OBJECTIVES We sought to evaluate the opinions of medical students and graduates regarding the quality of medical education in Greece.   METHODS Two online questionnaires concerning the undergraduate medical education and specialty training respectively were distributed.   RESULTS Regarding the quality of undergraduate medical education, 52.1% of participants replied favorably while clinical training was found satisfactory by 45.1. Dissatisfaction rates with research opportunities and support from tutors reached 88.4 and 83.3%, respectively. The majority (75.3%) supported the introduction of examinations for commencing specialty training. 52.3% of physicians were satisfied with the quality of specialty training. The most common complaint was the absence of a formal educational program. 67.2% of participants were dissatisfied with working conditions during their specialty training, with 70.1% working >60 h per week. Physicians practicing medical specialties were more satisfied with the quality of specialty training than those practicing surgical specialties (odds ratio: 1.43; 95% confidence limits: 1.09-1.87) and were less likely to work for >60 h per week (odds ratio: 0.66; 95% confidence limits: 0.48-0.9).   CONCLUSION Opinions expressed in this survey highlight the need for reforming medical education in Greece.
BACKGROUND The 2011 ACGME resident duty hour reform implemented additional restrictions to existing duty hour policies. Our objective was to determine the association between this reform and patient outcomes among several surgical specialties.   STUDY DESIGN Patients from 5 surgical specialties (neurosurgery, obstetrics/gynecology, orthopaedic surgery, urology, and vascular surgery) were identified from the American College of Surgeons NSQIP. Data from 1 year before and 2 years after the reform was implemented were obtained for teaching and nonteaching hospitals. Hospital teaching status was defined based on the percentage of operations with a resident present intraoperatively. Difference-in-differences models were developed separately for each specialty and adjusted for patient demographics, comorbidities, procedural case-mix, and time trends. The association between duty hour reform and a composite measure of death or serious morbidity within 30 days of surgery was estimated for each specialty.   RESULTS The unadjusted rate of death or serious morbidity decreased during the study period in both teaching and nonteaching hospitals for all surgical specialties. In multivariable analyses, there were no significant associations between duty hour reform and the composite outcomes of death or serious morbidity in the 2 years post-reform for any surgical specialty evaluated (neurosurgery: odds ratio [OR] = 0.90; 95% CI, 0.75-1.08; p = 0.26; obstetrics/gynecology: OR = 0.96; 95% CI, 0.71-1.30; p = 0.80; orthopaedic surgery: OR = 0.95; 95% CI, 0.74-1.22; p = 0.70; urology: OR = 1.16; 95% CI, 0.89-1.51; p = 0.26; vascular surgery: OR = 1.07; 95% CI, 0.93-1.22; p = 0.35).   CONCLUSIONS Implementation of the 2011 ACGME resident duty hour reform was not associated with a significant change in patient outcomes for several surgical specialties in the 2 years after reform.
IMPORTANCE Readmission is a target area of quality improvement in surgery. While variation in readmission is common, to our knowledge, no study has specifically examined the underlying etiology of this variation among a variety of surgical procedures performed in a large academic medical center.   OBJECTIVE To quantify the variability in 30-day readmission attributable to patient, surgeon, and surgical subspecialty levels in patients undergoing a major surgical procedure.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Retrospective analysis of administrative claims data of patients discharged following a major surgical procedure at a tertiary care center between January 1, 2009, and, December 31, 2013. A total of 22,559 patients were included in this study and underwent a major surgical procedure performed by 56 surgeons practicing in 8 surgical subspecialties.   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES In-hospital morbidity, 30-day readmission, and proportional variation in 30-day readmission at patient, surgeon, and surgical subspecialty levels.   RESULTS Among the 22,559 patients in this study, patient age, race/ethnicity, and payer type differed across surgical subspecialties. Preoperative comorbidity was common and noted in 65.1% of patients. Postoperative complications were noted in 21.6% of patients varying from 2.1% following breast, melanoma or endocrine surgery to 37.0% following cardiac surgery. The overall 30-day readmission was 13.2% (n=2975). Readmission varied considerably across the 8 different surgical subspecialties, ranging from 24.8% following transplant surgery (n=557) to 2.1% following breast, melanoma, or endocrine surgery (n=32). After adjusting for patient- and surgeon-level variables, factors associated with readmission included African American race/ethnicity (odds ratio, 1.23; 95% CI, 1.11-1.36; P<.001), increasing comorbidity (Charlson Comorbidity Index score of 1: odds ratio, 1.16; 95% CI, 1.02-1.32; P=.02; and a Charlson Comorbidity Index score of 2 : odds ratio, 1.38; 95% CI, 1.24-1.53; P<.001), postoperative complication (odds ratio, 1.19; 95% CI, 1.08-1.32; P=.001), and an extended length of stay (odds ratio, 1.78; 95% CI, 1.61-1.96; P<.001). The majority of the variation in readmission was attributable to patient-related factors (82.8%) while surgical subspecialty accounted for 14.5% of the variability, and individual surgeon-level factors accounted for 2.8%.   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Readmission occurred in more than 1 in 10 patients, with considerable variation across surgical subspecialties. Variation in readmission was overwhelmingly owing to patient-level factors while only a minority of the variation was attributable to factors at the surgical subspecialty and individual surgeon levels.
BACKGROUND Industry financial relationships for orthopaedic surgeons in the United States are now publicly reported in the Sunshine Act Open Payments database. We sought to present these data in a more easily understandable format and to describe how industry relationships in orthopaedic surgery compare with other surgical subspecialties.   METHODS The Open Payments database was searched for all records of industry financial relationships for orthopaedic surgeons. Data analyzed included the value of reported financial relationships per surgeon, the type of financial relationship, and geographic region. Similar analytics were collected for neurological surgery, urology, plastic surgery, and otolaryngology. Data were normalized to the overall number of providers in each subspecialty in the United States from the American Medical Association 2012 data.   RESULTS For 12,320 orthopaedic surgeons, 58,127 industry financial relationships were reported, with a total value of $80.2 million. Royalties or licensing fees, which were received by 1.7% of U.S. orthopaedic surgeons, accounted for 69.5% of the total monetary value of payments to orthopaedic surgeons. Between August and December 2013, 50.1% of U.S. orthopaedic surgeons had a reported financial relationship. Orthopaedics had the second lowest percentage of physicians with industry financial relationships among the five surgical subspecialties studied. The overall value of payments per orthopaedic surgeon was higher than in the other subspecialties, driven by the large value of royalties and licensing.   CONCLUSIONS One-half of U.S. orthopaedic surgeons have industry financial relationships reported in the Open Payments database. Orthopaedic surgeons are less likely than most surgical subspecialists to receive industry payments, and the majority of the overall value of orthopaedic financial relationships is driven by a small number of orthopaedic surgeons receiving royalties and licensing for reimbursable innovation within the field.
BACKGROUND An intraoperative adverse event (iAE) is often directly attributable to the surgeon's technical error and/or suboptimal intraoperative judgment. We aimed to examine the psychological impact of iAEs on surgeons as well as the surgeons' attitude about iAE reporting.   STUDY DESIGN We conducted a web-based cross-sectional survey of all surgeons at 3 major teaching hospitals of the same university. The 29-item questionnaire was developed using a systematic closed and open approach focused on assessing the surgeons' personal account of iAE incidence, emotional response to iAEs, available support systems, and perspective about the barriers to iAE reporting.   RESULTS The response rate was 44.8% (n혻= 126). Mean age of respondents was 49 years, 77% were male, and 83% performed >150 procedures/year. During the last year, 32% recalled 1 iAE, 39% recalled 2 to 5 iAEs, and 9% recalled >6 iAEs. The emotional toll of iAEs was significant, with 84% of respondents reporting a combination of anxiety (66%), guilt (60%), sadness (52%), shame/embarrassment (42%), and anger (29%). Colleagues constituted the most helpful support system (42%) rather than friends or family; a few surgeons needed psychological therapy/counseling. As for reporting, 26% preferred not to see their individual iAE rates, and 38% wanted it reported in comparison with their aggregate colleagues' rate. The most common barriers to reporting iAEs were fear of litigation (50%), lack of a standardized reporting system (49%), and absence of a clear iAE definition (48%).   CONCLUSIONS Intraoperative AEs occur often, have a significant negative impact on surgeons' well-being, and barriers to transparency are fear of litigation and absence of a well-defined reporting system. Efforts should be made to support surgeons and standardize reporting when iAEs occur.
BACKGROUND Being left-handed (LH) is considered a disadvantage in surgical training. We sought to understand the perspectives of LH trainees and surgical educators on the challenges and modifications in training LH surgeons.   METHODS A survey was distributed to surgeons, surgical residents, and medical students about challenges teaching and learning surgical technique.   RESULTS 25 LH surgeons, 65 right-handed (RH) surgeons, and 39 LH trainees completed the survey. Compared to LH surgeons, RH surgeons reported more difficulty (46% vs 16%, p혻=혻0.003) and less comfort teaching LH trainees (28% vs 4%, p혻=혻0.002), and 10 (15%) reported that LH trainees have less technical ability. RH surgeons identified challenges translating technique to LH trainees and physical limitations of an environment optimized for right-handed mechanics.   CONCLUSIONS The disadvantage LH surgical trainees face is due to barriers in training rather than inherent lesser ability. Nonetheless, minimal modifications are made to overcome these barriers.
Importance Sex is a variable that is poorly controlled for in clinical research.   Objectives To determine if sex bias exists in human surgical clinical research, to determine if data are reported and analyzed using sex as an independent variable, and to identify specialties in which the greatest and least sex biases exist.   Design, Setting, and Participants For this bibliometric analysis, data were abstracted from 1303 original peer-reviewed articles published from January 1, 2011, through December 31, 2012, in 5 surgery journals.   Main Outcomes and Measures Study type, location, number and sex of participants, degree of sex matching of included participants, and inclusion of sex-based reporting, statistical analysis, and discussion of data.   Results Of 2347 articles reviewed, 1668 (71.1%) included human participants. After excluding 365 articles, 1303 remained: 17 (1.3%) included males only, 41 (3.1%) included females only, 1020 (78.3%) included males and females, and 225 (17.3%) did not document the sex of the participants. Although female participants represent more than 50% (n=57688606) of the total number (115377213) included, considerable variability existed with the number of male (46111818), female (58805665), and unspecified (10459730) participants included among the journals, between US domestic and international studies, and between single vs multicenter studies. For articles included in the study, 38.1% (497 of 1303) reported these data by sex, 33.2% (432 of 1303) analyzed these data by sex, and 22.9% (299 of 1303) included a discussion of sex-based results. Sex matching of the included participants in the research overall was poor, with 45.2% (589 of 1303) of the studies matching the inclusion of both sexes by 50%. During analysis of the different surgical specialties, a wide variation in sex-based inclusion, matching, and data reporting existed, with colorectal surgery having the best matching of male and female participants and cardiac surgery having the worst.   Conclusions and Relevance Sex bias exists in human surgical clinical research. Few studies included men and women equally, less than one-third performed data analysis by sex, and there was wide variation in inclusion and matching of the sexes among the specialties and the journals reviewed. Because clinical research is the foundation for evidence-based medicine, it is imperative that this disparity be addressed so that therapies benefit both sexes.
ASiT has long maintained that in order to provide the best quality care to patients in the UK and Republic of Ireland, it is critical that surgeons are trained to the highest standards. In addition, it is imperative that surgery remains an attractive career choice, with opportunities for career progression and job satisfaction to attract and retain the best candidates. In 2013, the Shape of Training review report set out recommendations for the structure and delivery of postgraduate training in light of an ever increasingly poly-morbid and ageing population. This consensus statement outlines ASIT's position regarding recommendations for improving surgical training and aims to help guide discussions with regard to future proposed changes to surgical training.
The Association of Surgeons in Training (ASiT) is a professional body and registered charity working to promote excellence in surgical training for the benefit of junior doctors and patient alike. ASiT is independent of the National Health Service (NHS), Surgical Royal Colleges and specialty associations, and represents trainees in all ten surgical specialities. We were delighted to be celebrating our 40th Anniversary Conference in the fantastic city of Liverpool with over 700 delegates in attendance and in the company of many ASiT Past Presidents. The conference programme focused on how to overcome threats to training in light of the recent turbulent events associated with the junior doctor contract dispute with inspiring talks from Professor Sir Bruce Keogh, NHS Medical Director and Rt Hon Heidi Alexander MP, Shadow Health Secretary. The other central topic to the conference was 'celebrating excellence in surgical training' and we were thankful to many other high profile speakers who attended to help in this celebration. In addition, over 짙4000 was distributed between more than 30 prizes and was awarded by the incoming President, Mr Adam Williams, to delegates who presented the highest scoring academic work from over 1200 submitted abstracts.
BACKGROUND Surgical trainees are expected to demonstrate academic achievement in order to obtain their certificate of completion of training (CCT). These standards are set by the Joint Committee on Surgical Training (JCST) and specialty advisory committees (SAC). The standards are not equivalent across all surgical specialties and recognise different achievements as evidence. They do not recognise changes in models of research and focus on outcomes rather than process. The Association of Surgeons in Training (ASiT) and National Research Collaborative (NRC) set out to develop progressive, consistent and flexible evidence set for academic requirements at CCT.   METHODS A modified-Delphi approach was used. An expert group consisting of representatives from the ASiT and the NRC undertook iterative review of a document proposing changes to requirements. This was circulated amongst wider stakeholders. After ten iterations, an open meeting was held to discuss these proposals. Voting on statements was performed using a 5-point Likert Scale. Each statement was voted on twice, with 80% of votes in agreement meaning the statement was approved. The results of this vote were used to propose core and optional academic requirements for CCT.   RESULTS Online discussion concluded after ten rounds. At the consensus meeting, statements were voted on by 25 delegates from across surgical specialties and training-grades. The group strongly favoured acquisition of 'Good Clinical Practice' training and research methodology training as CCT requirements. The group agreed that higher degrees, publications in any author position (including collaborative authorship), recruiting patients to a study or multicentre audit and presentation at a national or international meeting could be used as evidence for the purpose of CCT. The group agreed on two essential 'core' requirements (GCP and methodology training) and two of a menu of four 'additional' requirements (publication with any authorship position, presentation, recruitment of patients to a multicentre study and completion of a higher degree), which should be completed in order to attain CCT.   CONCLUSION This approach has engaged stakeholders to produce a progressive set of academic requirements for CCT, which are applicable across surgical specialties. Flexibility in requirements whilst retaining a high standard of evidence is desirable.
PURPOSE Both pediatric urologists and pediatric surgeons perform hernia repairs, hydrocelectomies and orchiopexies. We hypothesized that surgeons perform more incarcerated and female hernia repairs while urologists perform more orchiopexies and hydrocelectomies.   METHODS The Vizient-AAMC Faculty Practice Solutions Center짰 database was queried from January 2009 to December 2014 to identify patients 10years or younger who underwent the above procedures performed by pediatric specialists. Age, gender, race, insurance, geographic region and surgeon volume were examined.   RESULTS In the study 55,893 surgeries were identified: 26,073 primary hernia repairs, 462 recurrent hernia repairs, 3399 laparoscopic hernia repairs, 9414 hydrocele repairs and 16,545 orchiopexies. Pediatric surgeons performed 89% of primary hernia repairs with an annual median surgeon volume of 4 cases/year. Pediatric urologists performed 62% of hydrocelectomies and 83% of orchiopexies with annual median surgeon volumes of 6 and 24, respectively. Pediatric surgeons performed all procedures in younger patients and performed more female and incarcerated hernia repairs.   CONCLUSIONS Pediatric surgeons operate on younger patients and treat more patients with inguinal hernias while pediatric urologists care for more boys with undescended testes and hydroceles. This knowledge of referral patterns and care between specialties with overlapping expertise will allow improvements in training and access.   LEVELS OF EVIDENCE Cost Effectiveness Study, Level of Evidence III.
BACKGROUND Mental practice, the cognitive rehearsal of a task without physical movement, is known to enhance performance in sports and music. Investigation of this technique in surgery has been limited to basic operations. The purpose of this study was to develop mental practice scripts, and to assess their effect on advanced laparoscopic skills and surgeon stress levels in a crisis scenario.   METHODS Twenty senior surgical trainees were randomized to either conventional training or mental practice groups, the latter being trained by an expert performance psychologist. Participants' skills were assessed while performing a porcine laparoscopic jejunojejunostomy as part of a crisis scenario in a simulated operating room, using the Objective Structured Assessment of Technical Skill (OSATS) and bariatric OSATS (BOSATS) instruments. Objective and subjective stress parameters were measured, as well as non-technical skills using the Non-Technical Skills for Surgeons rating tool.   RESULTS An improvement in OSATS (P=0.003) and BOSATS (P=0.003) scores was seen in the mental practice group compared with the conventional training group. Seven of ten trainees improved their technical performance during the crisis scenario, whereas four of the ten conventionally trained participants deteriorated. Mental imagery ability improved significantly following mental practice training (P=0.011), but not in the conventional group (P=0.083). No differences in objective or subjective stress levels or non-technical skills were evident.   CONCLUSION Mental practice improves technical performance for advanced laparoscopic tasks in the simulated operating room, and allows trainees to maintain or improve their performance despite added stress.
BACKGROUND AND AIMS Thyroglossal surgery is not common in Scotland with 0.013 procedures performed per 1000 population in 2010. There is a growing practice in surgery to consolidate service providers to ensure a minimum 'case volume', with the belief that this will raise standards and improve co-ordination of services. We investigated thyroglossal surgery to see if this had occurred.   METHODS AND RESULTS Data on thyroglossal surgery performed in Scotland from 1981 to 2010 were obtained from the Information Services Division of NHS Scotland. This was analysed to investigate the number of procedures involving thyroglossal tissue, the surgical speciality of operating surgeon and the health board in which the procedure was performed. Whilst the number of thyroglossal operations has remained essentially static over the study period, there has been a steady trend of consolidation of the surgical speciality performing the procedure. In 1981, 58% of thyroglossal surgery was performed by general surgeons, 18% by paediatric surgeons and 15% by ENT surgeons nationally. In 2010, ENT surgeons are performing 81%.   CONCLUSIONS Our data suggest that the provision of thyroglossal surgery is being consolidated in Scotland by speciality and that ENT surgeons are providing this service in the majority of cases.
BACKGROUND Validated training exercises are essential tools for surgeons as they develop technical skills to use robot-assisted minimally invasive surgical systems. The purpose of this study was to show face, content, and construct validity of four, inanimate training exercises using the da Vinci (짰) Si surgical system configured with Single-Site () instrumentation.   METHODS New (N = 21) and experienced (N = 6) surgeons participated in the study. New surgeons (11 Gynecology [GYN] and 10 General Surgery [GEN]) had not completed any da Vinci Single-Site cases but may have completed multiport cases using the da Vinci system. They participated in this study prior to attending a certification course focused on da Vinci Single-Site instrumentation. Experienced surgeons (5 GYN and 1 GEN) had completed at least 25 da Vinci Single-Site cases. The surgeons completed four inanimate training exercises and then rated them with a questionnaire. Raw metrics and overall normalized scores were computed using both video recordings and kinematic data collected from the surgical system.   RESULTS The experienced surgeons significantly outperformed new surgeons for many raw metrics and the overall normalized scores derived from video review (p < 0.05). Only one exercise did not achieve a significant difference between new and experienced surgeons (p = 0.08) when calculating an overall normalized score using both video and advanced metrics derived from kinematic data. Both new and experienced surgeons rated the training exercises as appearing, to train and measure technical skills used during da Vinci Single-Site surgery and actually testing the technical skills used during da Vinci Single-Site surgery.   CONCLUSIONS In summary, the four training exercises showed face, content, and construct validity. Improved overall scores could be developed using additional metrics not included in this study. The results suggest that the training exercises could be used in an overall training curriculum aimed at developing proficiency in technical skills for surgeons new to da Vinci Single-Site instrumentation.
Specialized endoscopic evaluation for patients with Barrett's esophagus (BE) is well supported; however, no studies have shown that centers with expertise provide better quality care for BE with high-grade dysplasia or early adenocarcinoma. In this study, the investigators aimed to evaluate the management and clinical course for patients treated in a community practice versus a specialized BE center. Methods. A retrospective analysis of referrals from the community to our specialized center for evaluation of BE at St Paul's Hospital Division of Gastroenterology between January 2007 and February 2014 was performed. Subjects were patients who were referred for BE and dysplasia and subsequently reevaluated by endoscopy. The pathology and endoscopy reports from the community and our center were reviewed. Inclusion criteria were as follows: being  19 years old and pathologic diagnosis of BE or dysplasia in the community. Exclusion criteria were as follows: incomplete pathology data or incomplete endoscopy reports from the community physicians. Results. A total of 77 patients were reviewed. The staging of 28.9% of patients referred from the community was changed from the initial pathological diagnosis. 18.4% of these patients were upstaged. Using Fischer's exact test, we showed that, in our specialized center, endoscopic impressions correlated significantly with pathology results (p < 0.0001).
OBJECTIVE To examine how surgeons use the 'fix-it' model to communicate with patients before high-risk operations.   BACKGROUND The 'fix-it' model characterizes disease as an isolated abnormality that can be restored to normal form and function through medical intervention. This mental model is familiar to patients and physicians, but it is ineffective for chronic conditions and treatments that cannot achieve normalcy. Overuse may lead to permissive decision making favoring intervention. Efforts to improve surgical decision making will need to consider how mental models function in clinical practice, including 'fix-it.'   METHODS We observed surgeons who routinely perform high-risk surgery during preoperative discussions with patients. We used qualitative content analysis to explore the use of 'fix-it' in 48 audio-recorded conversations.   RESULTS Surgeons used the 'fix-it' model for 2 separate purposes during preoperative conversations: (1) as an explanatory tool to facilitate patient understanding of disease and surgery, and (2) as a deliberation framework to assist in decision making. Although surgeons commonly used 'fix-it' as an explanatory model, surgeons explicitly discussed limitations of the 'fix-it' model as an independent rationale for operating as they deliberated about the value of surgery.   CONCLUSIONS Although the use of 'fix-it' is familiar for explaining medical information to patients, surgeons recognize that the model can be problematic for determining the value of an operation. Whether patients can transition between understanding how their disease is fixed with surgery to a subsequent deliberation about whether they should have surgery is unclear and may have broader implications for surgical decision making.
OBJECTIVE Evaluate the current status of Hepatopancreatobiliary (HPB) Surgery workforce in North America.   BACKGROUND HPB fellowships have proliferated, with HPB surgeons entering the field through 3 pathways: transplant surgery, surgical oncology, or HPB surgery training. Impact of this growth is unknown.   METHODS An anonymous survey was distributed to 654 is used as HPB surgeons from October 2012 to January 2013. Questions evaluated satisfaction with job availability after training and description of current practice. Nationwide Inpatient Sample (NIS) data from 2003 to 2010 was queried to describe the growth of HPB cases in the United States; these data were compared to prior HPB workforce projections performed using 2003 NIS data.   RESULTS A total of 416 HPB surgeons responded (66%). HPB surgeons are concentrated in a small number of states/provinces with a lack of HPB surgeon workforce in central United States. HPB graduates from 2008 to 2012 report increased difficulty in identifying an HPB-focused practice versus prior to 2008. Mature HPB surgery practices report a composition of 25% to 50% non-HPB operative cases. Fifty-one percent of respondents reported an opinion that current HPB Surgeon production was excessive; however, 2010 NIS data demonstrate that major HPB surgery cases have grown significantly more than was previously projected using 2003 NIS data.   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE A cohesive strategy for responsibly responding to the HPB surgical workforce requirements of North America is needed. Elevation of training standards, standardization of requirements for certification, and careful modeling that accounts for regionalization of care should be pursued to prevent overtraining and decentralization of HPB surgical care in the future.
Laparoscopic liver resection has been recognized as a safe and efficient approach since the Louisville Conference in 2008, but its use still remains confined to experienced teams in specialized centers, and may lack some standardization. The 2013 Session of French Association for Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery (ACHBT) specifically focused on laparoscopic liver surgery and the particular aspects and issues arising since the 2008 conference. Our objective is to provide an update and summarize the current French position on laparoscopic liver surgery. An overview of the current practice of laparoscopic liver resections in France since 2008 is presented. The issues surrounding standardization for left lateral sectionectomy and right hepatectomy, hybrid and hand-assisted techniques are raised and discussed. Finally, future technologies and technical perspectives are outlined.
Published outcome studies support regionalization of pediatric surgery, in which all children suspected of having surgical disease are transferred to a specialty center. Transfer to specialty centers, however, is an expensive approach to quality, both in direct costs of hospitalization and the expense incurred by families. A related question is the role of well-trained rural surgeons in an adequately resourced facility in the surgical care of infants and children. Local community facilities provide measurably equivalent results for straightforward emergencies in older children such as appendicitis. With education, training, and support such as telemedicine consultation, rural surgeons and hospitals may be able to care for many more children such as single-system trauma and other cases for which they have training such as pyloric stenosis. They can recognize surgical disease at earlier stages and initiate appropriate treatment before transfer so that patients are in better shape for surgery when they arrive for definitive care. Rural and community facilities would be linked in a pediatric surgery system that covers the spectrum of pediatric surgical conditions for a geographical region.
OBJECTIVES To evaluate the learning curves of three high-volume procedures, from distinct surgical specialties.   SETTING Tertiary care academic hospital.   PARTICIPANTS A prospectively collected database comprising all medical records of patients undergoing isolated coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), total knee replacement (TKR) and bilateral reduction mammoplasty (BRM) at the Brigham and Women's Hospital, USA, 1996-2010. Multivariate generalised estimating equation (GEE) regression models were used to adjust for patient risk and clustering of procedures by surgeon.   PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURE Operative efficiency.   RESULTS A total of 1052 BRMs, 3254 CABGs and 3325 TKRs performed by 30 surgeons were analysed. Median number of procedures per surgeon was 61 (range 11-502), 290 (52-973) and 99 (10-1871) for BRM, CABG and TKR, respectively. Mean operative times were 134.4 (SD 34.5), 180.9 (62.3) and 101.9 (30.3) minutes, respectively. For each procedure, attending surgeon experience was associated with significant reductions in operative time (p<0.05). After 15뀂ears of experience, BRM operative time decreased by 69.8꿲in (38.3%), CABG operative time decreased by 17.5꿲in (7.8%) and TKR operative time decreased by 94.4꿲in (48.4%).   CONCLUSIONS Common trends in surgical learning exist. Dependent on the procedure, experience can serve as a powerful driver of improvement or have clinically insignificant impacts on operative time.
OBJECTIVE To compare the improvement of intraoperative laparoscopic skills by measuring GOALS score between residents who have undergone simulator training with those who have not received any simulator training.   STUDY DESIGN A randomized controlled trial.   PLACE AND DURATION OF STUDY Department of Surgery, Services Hospital, Lahore, from August 2013 to February 2014.   METHODOLOGY Thirty residents belonging to year 1, 2 and 3 were included in the study. They were randomly divided into 2 groups. Both groups had a baseline evaluation with GOALS score while performing dissection of gallbladder from liver bed during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Group-A underwent formal training on simulators whereas group-B did not receive any formal training on simulators. After 6 months, a repeat evaluation was done again by measuring GOALS score while performing gallbladder dissection.   RESULTS Baseline GOALS scores of both the groups were similar. Group-A baseline score was 7.66 짹 0.93 and group-B score was 7.46 짹 1.04 (p = 0.585). However repeat scores for group-A showed a significant improvement (an increase of 7.16 짹 1.48 to 14.76 짹 1.67, p < 0.001) from baseline scores. Residents in group-B improved their scores by 2.30 짹 0.99 to 9.76 짹 0.79 (p < 0.001). When inter group comparison was done the second score of group-A was significantly higher than that of group-B (14.76 짹 1.67 vs. 9.76 짹 0.79, p < 0.001). Inter-rater reliability was moderately significant (Kappa 0.540).
BACKGROUND The cardiothoracic surgical workforce is changing. Although 5% of practicing surgeons are women, 20% of current cardiothoracic surgery residents are women. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the influence of gender on specialty interest, satisfaction, and career pathways of current residents.   METHODS Responses to the mandatory 2015 Thoracic Surgery Residents Association/Thoracic Surgery Directors Association in-training examination survey taken by 354 residents (100% response rate) were evaluated. The influence of gender was assessed with the use of standard univariate analyses.   RESULTS Women accounted for 20% of residents, and the percentage did not vary with postgraduate year or program type (traditional versus integrated). Although no differences were found between the genders related to specialty interest, academic versus private practice career, or pursuit of additional training, women were more likely to pursue additional training in minimally invasive thoracic surgery (10% versus 2.5%, p혻= 0.001) and less likely to perform research in their careers (65% versus 88%, p혻=혻0.043). Although women were equally satisfied with their career choice, had similar numbers of interviews and job offers, and felt equally prepared for their boards,혻graduating women felt less prepared technically (77% versus 90%, p혻= 0.01) and for practicing independently (71% versus 87%, p혻= 0.01). Women were less likely to be married (26% versus 62%, p < 0.001) and have children (19% versus 49%, p < 0.001).   CONCLUSIONS Although career satisfaction and specialty interest were similar between the genders, women were less likely to intend to perform research during their careers despite similar previous research experience. Women also demonstrated lower rates of marriage and childbearing compared with their male counterparts.
Background괫here is limited information about how residents in surgical specialties view program strengths and opportunities for improvement (OFIs). Objective괫his study aggregated surgical residents' perspectives on program strengths and OFIs to determine whether there was agreement in perspectives among residents in 5 surgical specialties. Methods괨esident consensus lists of program strengths and areas for improvement were aggregated from site visits reports during 2012 and 2013 for obstetrics and gynecology, orthopaedic surgery, otolaryngology, plastic surgery, and surgery programs. Four trained individuals coded each strength or OFI in 1 of 3 categories: (1) factors common to all specialties; (2) program or institutional resources; and (3) factors unique to surgical specialties. Themes were classified as most frequent when listed by residents in more than 20% of the programs and less frequent when listed by residents in less than 20% of the programs. Results괫his study included a total of 359 programs, representing 27% to 49% of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education accredited programs in the 5 specialties. The most frequent strengths were progressive autonomy, collegiality, program leadership, and operative volume. Improving research and didactics, increasing faculty teaching and attendance at educational sessions, and increasing the number of nurse practitioners and physician assistants were common OFIs. Conclusions괚actors identified as important by surgical residents related to their learning environment, their educational program, and program and institutional support. Across programs in the study, similar attributes were listed as both program strengths and OFIs.
The separation of laryngology and rhinology from the medical field and of otology from the surgical field in the 1850s led to the development of an independent field: the ear, nose and throat diseases, head and neck surgery. Therefore, oto-rhino-laryngology (ORL) has its roots in surgery. Concerning this and considering common anatomic circumstances, ORL medical aspects should be relevant to the surgeon. This concerns traumatological cases, the problem of difficult intubation and the common treatment of a series of illnesses of the upper aerodigestive tract, in particular problems of the major tumour surgery.
BACKGROUND The subconscious way in which an individual approaches learning, goal orientation (GO), has been shown to influence job satisfaction, job performance, and burnout in nonmedical cohorts. The aim of this study was to adapt and validate an instrument to assess GO in surgical residents, so that in the future, we can better understand how differences in motivation affect professional development.   MATERIALS AND METHODS Residents were recruited to complete a 17-item survey adapted from the Patterns of Adaptive Learning Scales (PALS). The survey included three scales assessing GO in residency-specific terms. Items were scored on a 5-point Likert scale, and the psychometric properties of the adapted and original PALS were compared.   RESULTS Ninety-five percent of residents (61/64) participated. Median age was 30혻y and 33% were female. Mean (standard deviation) scale scores for the adapted PALS were: mastery 4.30 (0.48), performance approach (PAP) 3.17 (0.99), and performance avoid 2.75 (0.88). Mean (standard deviation) scale scores for the original PALS items were: mastery 3.35 (1.02), PAP 2.76 (1.15), and performance avoid 2.41 (0.91). Cronbach alpha were 慣혻=혻0.89 and 慣혻=혻0.84 for the adapted PAP and avoid scales, respectively, which were comparable with the original scales. For the adapted mastery scale, 慣혻=혻0.54. Exploratory factor analysis revealed five factors, and factor loadings for individual mastery items did not load consistently onto a single factor.   CONCLUSIONS This study represents the first steps in the development of a novel tool to measure GO among surgical residents. Understanding motivational psychology in residents may facilitate improved education and professional development.
IMPORTANCE Surgical conditions are an important component of global disease burden, due in part to critical shortages of adequately trained surgical providers in low- and middle-income countries.   OBJECTIVES To assess the use of Internet-based educational platforms as a feasible approach to augmenting the education and training of surgical providers in these settings.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Access to two online curricula was offered to 75 surgical faculty and trainees from 12 low- and middle-income countries for 60 days. The Surgical Council on Resident Education web portal was designed for general surgery trainees in the United States, and the School for Surgeons website was built by the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland specifically for the College of Surgeons of East, Central and Southern Africa. Participants completed an anonymous online survey detailing their experiences with both platforms. Voluntary respondents were daily Internet users and endorsed frequent use of both print and online textbooks as references.   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Likert scale survey questionnaire responses indicating overall and content-specific experiences with the Surgical Council on Resident Education and School for Surgeons curricula.   RESULTS Survey responses were received from 27 participants. Both online curricula were rated favorably, with no statistically significant differences in stated willingness to use and recommend either platform to colleagues. Despite regional variations in practice context, there were few perceived hurdles to future curriculum adoption.   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Both the Surgical Council on Resident Education and School for Surgeons educational curricula were well received by respondents in low- and middle-income countries. Although one was designed for US surgical postgraduates and the other for sub-Saharan African surgical providers, there were no significant differences detected in participant responses between the two platforms. Online educational resources have promise as an effective means to enhance the education of surgical providers in low- and middle-income countries.
Experimental medicine has evolved tremendously in the last few years. In particular, the introduction of novel techniques, in-vitro models, knock-out/transgenic animals and high-through put analytical methodologies have resulted in a deeper understanding of cellular pathophysiology and diseases. The daily clinical management has benefited by the introduction of biomarkers and targeted therapies. This development has been accompanied by increasing specialisation across all fields of research and medicine. Therefore, clinical-translational research requires a team of competent partners nowadays. The visceral surgeon can contribute significantly to these projects. The present review highlights several aspects of translational research and put chances and potential pitfalls into perspective in context with the work of the visceral surgeon.
BACKGROUND Academic partnerships between high- and low/middle-income countries can improve the quality of surgical education and health care delivery in each setting. We report the perceived needs related to collaborative surgical education in a resource-limited setting.   METHODS We used qualitative methods to elicit the opinions of surgical faculty members and surgical residents and quantitative methods to outline surgical procedure type and volume.   RESULTS Ethiopian faculty members identified the management of trauma and emergency surgical care as a priority. They identified supervision in the operating room (OR), topic-specific lectures and supervising resident assessments in the clinic as appropriate roles for partners. Residents were in agreement with faculty members, highlighting a desire for supervision in the OR and topic-specific lectures.   CONCLUSION We present specific experiences and needs of a surgical teaching unit in a low-income country, paving the way to form a meaningful and responsive relationship between 2 surgical departments in 2 universities.
OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS (1) To determine the characteristics of outpatient otolaryngology offices with an electronic medical record (EMR) system, and (2) to compare those characteristics with the trends in surgical and medical specialties.   STUDY DESIGN Cross-sectional analysis of U.S. representative data from the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NAMCS).   METHODS The 2005 to 2010 NAMCS datasets were analyzed. Physicians' specialty was recoded as otolaryngology, all surgical specialties, and all specialties combined. Physician offices with all- or partial-EMR system adoption were then compared to offices without EMR systems with respect to year; geographic region; urban setting; office setting; practice type; practice ownership; employment status; and revenues from Medicare, Medicaid, private insurance, and patient payment.   RESULTS Upon univariate analysis, EMR use was significantly higher among otolaryngology practices located in metropolitan areas and practices run or owned by larger groups of practitioners. Sources of patient revenue did not correlate with the likelihood of EMR use. Multivariate analysis revealed that EMR use by otolaryngologists was significantly associated with group practices and offices owned by institutions. Similar associations were observed with surgical specialties combined in addition to a higher EMR usage in practices with more than 25% of total revenue from private insurance.   CONCLUSIONS EMR utilization by otolaryngology practices appears similar to that of other specialties, and is more likely in metropolitan areas and larger practice settings. Despite the announcement of incentive programs under Medicare and Medicaid in 2009, EMR usage was not dependent on the percentage of physicians' total revenue from these sources.
OBJECTIVE To identify trends and characteristics of surgeon employment in the United States. Surgeons are increasingly choosing hospital or large group employment as their practice environment. DESIGN American Medical Association Physician Masterfile data were analyzed for the years 2001 to 2009.   SETTING Surgeons identified within the American Medical Association Masterfile.   PARTICIPANTS Surgeons were defined using definitions from the American Medical Association specialty data and the American Board of Medical Specialties certification data and included active, nonfederal, and nonresident physicians younger than 80 years of age.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Employment status and trends.   RESULTS The number of surgeons who reported having their own self-employed practice decreased from 48% to 33% between 2001 and 2009, and this decrease corresponded with an increase in the number of employed surgeons. Sixty-eight percent of surgeons in the United States now self-identify their practice environment as employed. Between 2006 and 2011, there was a 32% increase in the number of surgeon in a full-time hospital employment arrangement. Younger surgeons and female surgeons increasingly favor employment in large group practices. Employment trends were similar for both urban and rural practices.   CONCLUSIONS General surgeons and surgical subspecialists are choosing hospital employment instead of independent practice. The trend is especially notable among younger surgeons and among female surgeons. The trend denotes a professional paradigm shift of major importance.
BACKGROUND The shortage of essential surgical care in sub-Saharan Africa is a worldwide problem. Lack of healthcare workers, surgeons and very limited resources are the reason for this critical health crisis. Furthermore in Africa many physicians as soon as they get a degree emigrate in more attractive countries.   METHODS 'Multidisciplinary teaching support to a new Faculty of Medicine in N'Djamena - Chad' is a teaching cooperation program between 짬Sapienza쨩 University of Rome and the University Hospital 'Le Bon Samaritain' in N'Djamena, Chad. The project started in 2010, with the aim of cooperating in teaching medical students of African origin and in training Italian residents in sub-Saharan surgical and internal pathologies. In Chad the greatest surgical burden (about 11% of the total global diseases) is created by injuries, cancers, congenital anomalies, appendicitis, bowel obstructions, hernias, abscesses (by amebiasis or others) and obstetric emergencies.   CONCLUSIONS Up till now healthcare in Africa especially in rural areas has been provided by international organisations,we believe that academic collaborations between high-income and low-income Nations is necessary to meet the real needs of the african surgical workforce; at the same time it is very useful for store of knowledge of our residents.
BACKGROUND We hypothesized that general thoracic surgeons (GTS) predominantly perform complex noncardiac thoracic surgery in academic hospitals compared with cardiac surgeons (CS), general surgeons, and surgical oncologists.   METHODS Fiscal year 2007-2008 to 2009-2010 coding and work relative value unit data from the University Health System Consortium and Association of American Medical Colleges Faculty Practice Solutions Center database, which includes 86 academic institutions, was analyzed. Procedural groups for pneumonectomy, other pulmonary resection (including lobectomy, bilobectomy, segmentectomy, sleeve lobectomy, and video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery lobectomy-segmentectomy), and esophagectomy were evaluated.   RESULTS Of the 1,989,055.3 total work relative value units generated for complex noncardiac thoracic surgical procedures during the study period, 77.5% were generated by GTS, compared with 9.9% by CS, 8.9% by general surgeons, and 3.7% by surgical oncologists (p<0.001). General thoracic surgeons averaged 2.1 pneumonectomies, 51.1 other pulmonary resections, and 12.2 esophagectomies per year compared with 2.1 pneumonectomies, 9.4 other pulmonary resections, and less than 1 esophagectomy per year for CS. General surgeons and surgical oncologists averaged no more than 1.6 cases per year for all categories (all p<0.001, except for pneumonectomy, in which GTS versus CS was not significantly different). To determine the use of parenchymal-sparing operations, we looked at the ratio of sleeve lobectomy to pneumonectomy and found higher usage of parenchymal-sparing techniques by GTS, relative to pneumonectomy, compared with all other groups (p<0.001). General thoracic surgeons averaged 16.0 video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery lobectomies per year compared with approximately 1 per year for all other groups (p<0.001). General thoracic surgeons had a 47.1% increase in video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery lobectomies per year compared with 27.4% for CS.   CONCLUSIONS In academic hospitals, noncardiac thoracic surgery is performed mostly by GTS, supporting academic GTS as a distinct specialty. These results may help determine hospital referral and credentialing policies, and plan general and cardiothoracic surgery residency curriculum.
The utility of simulation in surgical training is now well-established, with proven validity and demonstrable transfer of skills to the clinical setting. Through a reduction in the technical learning curve, simulation can prepare surgeons for actual practice and in doing so it has the potential to improve both patient safety and service efficiency. More broadly, multi-disciplinary simulation of the theatre environment can aid development of non-technical skills and assist in preparing theatre teams for infrequently encountered scenarios such as surgical emergencies. The role of simulation in the formal training curriculum is less well-established, and availability of facilities for this is currently unknown. This paper reviews the contemporary evidence supporting simulation in surgical training and reports trainee access to such capabilities. Our national surgical trainee survey with 1130 complete responses indicated only 41.2% had access to skills simulator facilities. Of those with access, 16.3% had availability out-of-hours and only 54.0% had local access (i.e. current work place). These results highlight the paucity in current provision of surgical skills simulator facilities, and availability (or awareness of availability) varies widely between region, grade and specialty. Based on these findings and current best-evidence, the Association of Surgeons in Training propose 22 action-points for the introduction, availability and role of simulation in surgical training. Adoption of these should guide trainers, trainees and training bodies alike to ensure equitable provision of appropriate equipment, time and resources to allow the full integration of simulation into the surgical curriculum.
BACKGROUND Whether improvement of quality of surgical cancer care can be achieved by centralizing care in high-volume specialized centers is a subject of ongoing debate. We have conducted a meta-analysis of the literature on the effect of procedural volume or surgeon specialty on outcome of lung resections for cancer.   METHODS A systematic search of articles published between January 1, 1990 and January 20, 2011 on the effects of surgeon specialty and hospital or surgeon volume of lung resections on mortality and survival was conducted. After strict inclusion, meta-analysis assuming a random-effects model was performed. Meta-regression was used to identify volume cutoff values. Heterogeneity and the risk of publication bias were evaluated.   RESULTS Nineteen relevant studies were found. Studies were heterogeneous, especially in defining volume categories. The pooled estimated effect size was significant in favor of high-volume hospitals regarding postoperative mortality (odds ratio [OR] 0.71; confidence interval 0.62-0.81), but not for survival (OR 0.93; confidence interval 0.84-1.03). Surgeon volume showed no significant effect on outcome. General surgeons had significantly higher mortality risks than general thoracic (OR 0.78; 0.70-0.88) or cardiothoracic surgeons (OR 0.82; 0.69-0.96). A minimal annual volume of resections for lung cancer could not be identified.   CONCLUSIONS Hospital volume and surgeon specialty are important determinants of outcome in lung cancer resections, but evidence-based minimal-volume standards are lacking. Evaluation of individual institutions in a national audit program might help elucidate the influence of individual quality-of-care parameters, including hospital volume, on outcome.
It was common for specialists in endocrine and thyroid surgery to join both the Japan Association of Endocrine Surgeons (with membership of approximately 1,000 surgeons and urologists) and the Japanese Society of Thyroid Surgery (with membership of approximately 1,000 surgeons and otolaryngologists), which was established in 2008. On January 1, 2009, the category of specialist in endocrine and thyroid surgery was created, and as of January 2012, 358 specialists were listed. The first specialist examination (written and oral) will be conducted in October 2012, allowing specialists to be certified. There are now total of 127 authorized and associated institutions. This report gives an outline of this system and future issues to be addressed.
PURPOSE The American College of Surgeons (ACS) National Surgical Quality Improvement Program Pediatric (NSQIP-P) expanded to beta phase testing with the enrollment of 29 institutions. Data collection and analysis were aimed at program refinement and development of risk-adjusted models for inter-institutional comparisons.   METHODS Data from the first full year of beta-phase NSQIP-P were analyzed. Patient accrual used ACS-NSQIP methodology tailored to pediatric specialties. Preliminary risk adjusted modeling for all pediatric and neonatal operations and pediatric (excluding neonatal) abdominal operations was performed for all cause morbidity (other than death) and surgical site infections (SSI) using hierarchical logistic regression methodology and eight predictor variables. Results were expressed as odds ratios with 95% confidence intervals.   RESULTS During calendar year 2010, 29 institutions enrolled 37,141 patients. 1644 total CPT codes were entered, of which 456 accounted for 90% of the cases. 450 codes were entered only once (1.2% of cases). For all cases, overall mortality was 0.25%, overall morbidity 7.9%, and the SSI rate 1.8%. For neonatal cases, mortality was 2.39%, morbidity 18.7%, and the SSI rate 3%. For the all operations model, risk-adjusted morbidity institutional odds ratios ranged 0.48-2.63, with 9/29 hospitals categorized as low outliers and 9/29 high outliers, while risk-adjusted SSI institutional odds ratios ranged 0.36-2.04, with 2/29 hospitals low outliers and 7/29 high outliers.   CONCLUSION This report represents the first risk-adjusted hospital-level comparison of surgical outcomes in infants and children using NSQIP-P data. Programmatic and analytic modifications will improve the impact of this program as it moves into full implementation. These results indicate that NSQIP-P has the potential to serve as a model for determining risk-adjusted outcomes in the neonatal and pediatric population with the goal of developing quality improvement initiatives for the surgical care of children.
BACKGROUND Surgery is an environment in which being an expert requires the ability to manage the unexpected. This feature has necessitated a shift in surgical decision-making research. The present study explores the processes by which surgeons assess and respond to nonroutine challenges in the operating room.   METHODS We used a grounded theory methodology supported on intraoperative observations and postoperative interviews with 7 faculty surgeons from various specialties. A total of 32 cases were purposively sampled to compile a dataset of challenging situations.   RESULTS Thematic data analysis yielded 3 main themes that were linked in a cyclic model: assessing the situation, the reconciliation cycle, and implementing the planned course of action. These elements were connected through 2 points of transition (ie, active and confirmatory reconciliation), during which time the surgeons continue to act although they may change the course of their action.   CONCLUSIONS The proposed model builds on existing theories of naturalistic decision making from other high-stakes environments. This model elaborates on a theoretic language that accounts for the unique aspects of surgery, making it useful for teaching in the operating room.
BACKGROUND On July 1, 2011, the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) eliminated 30-hour call in an attempt to improve resident wakefulness. We surveyed interns on the Newton Wellesley Hospital (NWH) surgery service before and after the transition from Q4 overnight call to a night float schedule.   METHODS For 15 weeks, interns completed weekly surveys including the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS). The service changed to a night float schedule after 3 weeks (ie, first to 3-4 and then to 6 nights in a row).   RESULTS The average ESS score rose from 9.8 짹 5.2 to 14.9 짹 3.1 and 14.4 짹 4.5 (P = .042) on the 3/4 and 6/1 schedules, respectively. Interns were more likely to be abnormally tired on either night float schedule (relative risk = 2.86; 95% confidence interval, 1.17-6.97, P = .029).   CONCLUSIONS The new ACGME work hours increased the ESS scores among interns at NWH and caused interns to be more tired than interns on the Q4 schedule. This is likely caused by the multiple nights of poor sleep without a post-call day to make up sleep.
BACKGROUND Surgeons are known to be bolder than other members of the medical profession. Testosterone levels are known to be higher in aggressive men. We wondered whether the above two statements indicated that the spunkiness of surgeons was related to higher testosterone levels.   METHODS Sixteen surgeons and 16 non-surgeons, all men, aged 32-59 years took part in a prospective study that assessed their testosterone levels.   RESULTS There was no statistical difference between the testosterone levels of the two groups.   CONCLUSION The reason for the gutsy behaviour of surgeons is not linked to their testosterone levels. Surgeons were disappointed to know this while non-surgeons were amused and a bit relieved.
PURPOSE To determine practice patterns/outcomes and educational opportunities in endocrine surgery by resident involvement in general surgery (GS) and otolaryngology (ENT).   METHODS We queried the American College of Surgeon National Surgical Quality Improvement Program for thyroid/parathyroid operations. Resident involvement was categorized by postgraduate year (PGY) and specialty.   RESULTS Of 38,257 thyroid patients, attendings alone performed 28% in GS versus 65% in ENT, and of 17,145 parathyroid patients, 22.1% vs 66.5%. Of GS cases done with housestaff, the percentages with junior residents (PGY1-3), senior residents (PGY4,5), and fellows were 42%, 50%, and 7%, respectively, whereas for ENT operations, the percentages were 35%, 46%, and 16%. For parathyroidectomies, the percentages were 41.1%/46.8%/12.1% vs 38.7%/45.9%/15.5%. Operative time was less for GS (115 minutes) versus ENT (123 minutes). Time in the operating room increased with increasing PGY in ENT, but not in GS. Case complexity and outcomes were similar. Duration of hospital stay was greater in ENT.   CONCLUSION No differences exist in case complexity between specialties. More thyroid/parathyroid operations are performed with residents in GS; junior residents in GS perform a large percentage of these cases (40%), indicating early exposure to endocrine surgery and balanced experience between resident levels with minimal effect of fellows. Although junior residents receive exposure in ENT, a greater proportion is performed by fellows. Outcomes were similar by resident level, except operative time, which was greater for ENT at all levels. Ultimately, equal outcomes but lesser operating times and durations of hospital stay are seen with GS residents than their ENT counterparts.
PURPOSE Acute care surgery (ACS) remains in its infancy as a defined surgical specialty within hospital systems. Little has been published regarding the financial impact of this method of care delivery to hospital systems and departments when combining trauma, surgical critical care, emergent, and elective general surgery into a single practice model. We sought to compare hospital net income and divisional clinical productivity measures of a newly formed, university division of ACS based on patient type-trauma, emergency general surgery, and elective surgery-to determine the best avenues by which to focus on programmatic growth.   METHODS Single calendar year, retrospective review of hospital system income and divisional fiscal productivity of specific patient visits by patient type (trauma, emergent, or elective) admitted to or discharged by the acute care surgeons. Demographic data, payor mix, patient volumes, and operative rates were determined for each patient type. Fiscal contribution by patient type to both hospital and clinical productivity were measured by hospital net income and divisional work relative value units (wRVU) production respectively. The Chi-square test for independence compared payor mix and analysis of variance was used for comparison of fiscal performance between patient types.   RESULTS We included 1,492 patients in the analysis of calendar year 2010; 1,056 trauma (67% male; mean age, 41.9; range, 0-102), 346 emergent (53% male; mean age, 44.6; range, 15-91), and 90 elective (51% male; mean age, 46; range, 16-87) patient encounters met criteria for analysis. There were no differences in payor mix between patient types. Significant differences were seen in average per patient encounter hospital net income, divisional wRVU production and duration of stay. The ACS team (n = 3) operated on 12% of trauma patients compared with 52% of emergent and 100% of elective surgery encounters. Hospital net income per patient was greatest for trauma encounters, whereas divisional clinical productivity per patient encounter was greatest for emergent patients. Elective encounters contributed negatively to hospital margins.   CONCLUSION Per-patient hospital system income and a majority of clinical wRVU productivity remains greatest for the care of injured patients in our ACS practice model; emergent general surgical encounters demonstrate the greatest per-patient rates of divisional clinical productivity.
BACKGROUND Differentiating large lipomas from atypical lipomatous tumors (ALT) is challenging, and preoperative management guidelines are not well defined. The diagnostic ambiguity leads many surgeons to refer all patients with large lipomatous masses to an oncologic specialist, perhaps unnecessarily.   STUDY DESIGN In this retrospective cohort study of patients with nonretroperitoneal lipomatous tumors, preoperative characteristics discernible without invasive diagnostic procedures were evaluated for diagnostic predictive value.   RESULTS We identified 319 patients (256 with lipomas, 63 with ALTs) treated between 1994 and 2012. Patients with ALTs were older (60.5 vs 53.5 years, p < 0.0001), had larger tumors (16.0 vs 8.3 cm, p < 0.0001), had tumors more often located on an extremity (88.9% vs 60.5% torso, p < 0.0001), and more frequently had a history of previous operations at the same site, exclusive of excision leading to diagnosis and referral (20.6% vs 5.9%, p = 0.001). Local recurrence was observed in 2 patients with lipomas (0.8%) vs 14 with ALTs (22.6%, p < 0.0001). No patients with ALTs developed distant metastases or disease-specific mortality, with a median follow-up of 27.4 months (range 0 to 164.6 months). On multivariate analysis, age  55 years, tumor size  10 cm, extremity location, and history of previous resections were predictors for diagnosis of ALT (p < 0.05).   CONCLUSIONS Characteristics of lipomatous masses associated with a diagnosis of ALT include patient age  55 years, tumor size  10 cm, previous resection, and extremity location (vs torso). These easily identifiable traits may guide surgical management or referral to a specialist.
OBJECTIVE : To identify the features of effective debriefing and to use this to develop and validate a tool for assessing such debriefings.   INTRODUCTION : Simulation-based training has become an accepted means of surgical skill acquisition. A key component of this is debriefing-yet there is a paucity of research to guide best practice.   METHODS : Phase 1-Identification of best practice and tool development. A search of the Medline, Embase, PsycINFO, and ERIC databases identified current evidence on debriefing. End-user input was obtained through 33 semistructured interviews conducted with surgeons (n = 18) and other operating room personnel (n = 15) from 3 continents (UK, USA, Australia) using standardized qualitative methodology. An expert panel (n = 7) combined the data to create the Objective Structured Assessment of Debriefing (OSAD) tool. Phase 2-Psychometric testing. OSAD was tested for feasibility, reliability, and validity by 2 independent assessors who rated 20 debriefings following high-fidelity simulations.   RESULTS : Phase 1: 28 reports on debriefing were retrieved from the literature. Key components of an effective debriefing identified from these reports and the 33 interviews included: approach to debriefing, learning environment, learner engagement, reaction, reflection, analysis, diagnosis of strengths and areas for improvement, and application to clinical practice. Phase 2: OSAD was feasible, reliable [inter-rater ICC (intraclass correlation coefficient) = 0.88, test-retest ICC = 0.90], and face and content valid (content validity index = 0.94).   CONCLUSIONS : OSAD provides an evidence-based, end-user informed approach to debriefing in surgery. By quantifying the quality of a debriefing, OSAD has the potential to identify areas for improving practice and to optimize learning during simulation-based training.
Dermatologic surgery presents a unique set of ethical dilemmas not frequently discussed within the medical literature. This contribution presents a few cases commonly encountered by dermatologic surgeons. The case-based discussion follows a principles-based framework for analysis and seeks to identify the central moral conflict and exemplify the development of sound reasoning for subsequent decision making through the consideration of multiple viewpoints and the weighing of potential consequences. Additional cases are provided in concise format to encourage further analysis and discourse on the distinct ethical dilemmas encountered within dermatologic surgery.
INTRODUCTION The surgical resident experience regarding open surgical procedures and techniques is being significantly limited by the maturation of minimally invasive surgery (MIS) and duty-hour restrictions. MIS has replaced many open procedures as the current standard of care. As MIS progresses, the surgical residents' access to open surgical techniques will become significantly limited by the lack of exposure to common open operations.   METHODS The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) database was retrospectively reviewed to quantify and categorize resident experience in self-reported surgical procedures. The United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS) database was retrospectively reviewed to determine the amount of organ transplants and procurements performed during the study period. Data from 1999-2000 and 2008-2009 were collected and compared.   RESULTS There were dramatic changes between the time periods regarding the transition from the open to the laparoscopic approach for multiple operations. In 2008, there were 23,276 transplanted organs and 29,077 organs procured (7990 multi-organ procurements). However, the graduating general surgery chief residents reported doing an average of 2 organ procurements and 7 organ transplantations over a 5-year period. This provides the opportunity for each graduating chief resident to perform 38 more procurements during their residency.   CONCLUSION It is imperative for surgical educators to find solutions to safely train the future general surgery residents to perform more surgical techniques in less time. One solution to this problem may lie within the field of organ transplantation and procurement. The field of organ transplantation and procurement may be an untapped resource for valuable exposure to the basic principles of open surgical techniques that are declining due to the advancement of MIS and mandated duty-hour restrictions.
BACKGROUND Methods to increase the exposure of junior medical students to surgery have been described and developed by academic and clinical surgical departments. Most methods have exposed students to surgery within a simulated environment. The Summer Vacation Surgical Program is a method which exposes junior medical students to the clinical environments of surgery.   METHODS A retrospective study was performed of surveys completed by medical students after each Summer Vacation Surgical Program from 2008 to 2011. Responses were both quantitative and qualitative. All qualitative responses were read by 3 independent researchers from which category headings were generated. All data were accounted for and analyzed using these categories.   RESULTS One hundred and seven medical students completed the Summer Vacation Surgical Program between 2008 and 2011. Fifty-five medical students completed the voluntary survey (response rate = 51.4%). The highest-scored responses were demonstrated for meeting learning needs and helping with career choices. Three category headings were generated from the qualitative responses, which consist of placement structure, learning experience, and career decision-making. From these categories it was demonstrated that respondents perceived positive learning environments and improved generic and surgical skills. Some respondents also clarified their career choices and progressed their career development.   CONCLUSIONS An intensive exposure to the spectrum of surgical practice may assist junior medical students in their career decision-making and planning, while also providing other learning opportunities valued by students. Prospective studies are needed to assess the influence of such exposure on career choice and applications to surgical training.
BACKGROUND AND AIM Structured training on box trainers in laparoscopic skills in the initial years of residency has been used and found to be effective. Although there are studies that confirm immediate improvement after training, there is a lack of well-designed trials addressing the crucial issue of retention of these skills over time. The purpose of this study is to assess improvement in laparoscopic skills of surgical trainees after structured training on box trainers, compared with traditional training (observing and assisting laparoscopic procedures in the operation rooms) immediately and after 5 months.   METHODS Forty surgical residents in their first 2 months of residency training were randomized to either structured training on box trainers, in addition to traditional training, or to traditional training alone. Groups were equivalent with regards to demographics, previous operative experience, and baseline skills. Structured training consisted of 4 sessions with 6 tasks on box trainers under supervision and self practice. Task-based objective structured practical examinations (OSPE) were completed before and after each task. At the end of the training, residents were assessed by a blinded faculty member with the global operative assessment of laparoscopic skills (GOALS) rating scale. Residents also completed a satisfaction questionnaire. Focus group discussions were conducted for both groups. The GOALS were repeated for both the groups at the end of 5 months to assess retention of skills.   RESULTS The mean GOALS score was significantly higher for the structured training group (mean/SD 20.35 + 0.74) compared with the traditional training group (mean/SD 16.35 + 1.75, p < 0.01) at the end of 5 months. The mean global rating scale (GRS) score was significantly higher (Pre 7.55 + 0.99 vs. Post 16.4 + 0.68, p < 0.01) for the structured training group at the end of course. Residents in the structured training group had significantly improved skills immediately after the training and had better retention of skills at the end of five months.   CONCLUSIONS Structured training on box trainers, in addition to traditional training, compared with traditional training alone, leads to better skills and improved confidence of residents. There is significant retention of skills at the end of 5 months. These results provide support for incorporation of structured training with box trainers for laparoscopic skills into surgical training programs.
BACKGROUND Role models and mentors play an important part in attracting undergraduates into various medical specialties. However, little is known about the part played by role models and mentors in the context of surgery. The aim of this survey was to elucidate medical students' and surgical trainees' experiences of role models and to determine how mentoring works in practice. We also set out to identify traits associated with successful role models and mentors.   METHODS A questionnaire was distributed to senior undergraduate medical students in 1 medical school, and postgraduate surgical trainees (members of the Association of Surgeons in Training (ASIT) in the UK and Ireland. The survey included questions about the availability of mentors and role models and explored mentorship process.   RESULTS A total of 163 medical students and 216 surgical trainees completed the questionnaire. While most medical students did not have a mentor, 52% (n = 104) of trainees reported having a surgical mentor. In both cases, mentoring was ill-structured and informal. While most medical students expressed a preference for a formal mentoring program, only 38% of surgical trainees expressed a preference for a more formal approach. Experiences of negative surgical role models were a pervasive feature for both medical student and surgical trainee respondents.   DISCUSSION This survey highlights a lack of a deliberate approach to mentoring in surgery and the presence of an excess of negative role models. It is, therefore, time for surgeons to pay much more attention to their roles as professional exemplars and mentors.
BACKGROUND With the institution of the work-hour restrictions in 2003, less time may be available for surgical residents to learn operative technique and judgment. While numerous studies have evaluated the use of surgical simulation training to enhance operative skills, little is known about the quality of teaching that takes place in the operating room (OR). The purpose of this study was to assess residents' perception of faculty teaching in the OR in order to target ways to improve operative education.   METHODS A request for resident participation in an online survey was sent to the Program Coordinator at all 255 ACGME-accredited general surgery residency programs.   RESULTS A total of 148 programs (59%) participated in the survey, and anonymous responses were submitted by 998 of 4926 residents (20%). Most residents reported that attending surgeons verbalize their operative approach (55%), include residents in intraoperative decisions (61%), and offer technical advice (84%). However, few residents reported that faculty help to identify the resident's personal educational operative goals preoperatively (18%) or discuss areas of improvement with residents (37%). Of all cases scrubbed in the past year, most residents feel as though they only actually performed the procedure between 26% and 50% (29%) or between 51% and 75% (32%) of the time. However, more than half of all residents (51%) log these procedures for ACGME as primary surgeon 76%-100% of the time.   CONCLUSIONS This study demonstrates that from the residents' perspective, a number of opportunities exist to improve teaching in the OR, such as guiding residents with preoperative preparation and providing them with constructive feedback. These findings also suggest that residents may be logging cases without feeling as though they actually perform the operations.
INTRODUCTION The advances in Internet and computer technology offer many solutions that can enhance surgical education and increase the effectiveness of surgical teaching. E-learning plays an important role in surgical education today, with many e-learning projects already available on the Internet.   EDUCATIONAL THEORY E-learning is based on a mixture of educational theories that derive from behaviorist, cognitivist, and constructivist educational theoretical frameworks. CAN EDUCATIONAL THEORY IMPROVE E-LEARNING?: Conventional educational theory can be applied to improve the quality and effectiveness of e-learning. The theory of 'threshold concepts' and educational theories on reflection, motivation, and communities of practice can be applied when designing e-learning material. E-LEARNING IN SURGICAL EDUCATION: E-learning has many advantages but also has weaknesses. Studies have shown that e-learning is an effective teaching method that offers high levels of learner satisfaction. Instead of trying to compare e-learning with traditional methods of teaching, it is better to integrate in e-learning elements of traditional teaching that have been proven to be effective.   CONCLUSIONS E-learning can play an important role in surgical education as a blended approach, combined with more traditional methods of teaching, which offer better face-to-interaction with patients and colleagues in different circumstances and hands on practice of practical skills. National provision of e-learning can make evaluation easier. The correct utilization of Internet and computer resources combined with the application of valid conventional educational theory to design e-learning relevant to the various levels of surgical training can be effective in the training of future surgeons.
PURPOSE To explore surgeons' perceptions of the factors that influence their intraoperative decision making, and implications for professional self-regulation and patient safety.   METHOD Semistructured interviews were conducted with 39 academic surgeons from various specialties at four hospitals associated with the University of Toronto Faculty of Medicine. Purposive and theoretical sampling was performed until saturation was achieved. Thematic analysis of the transcripts was conducted using a constructivist grounded-theory approach and was iteratively elaborated and refined as data collection progressed. A preexisting theoretical professionalism framework was particularly useful in describing the emergent themes; thus, the analysis was both inductive and deductive.   RESULTS Several factors that surgeons described as influencing their decision making are widely accepted ('avowed,' or in patients' best interests). Some are considered reasonable for managing multiple priorities external to the patient but are not discussed openly ('unavowed,' e.g., teaching pressures). Others are actively denied and consider the surgeon's best interests rather than the patient's ('disavowed,' e.g., reputation). Surgeons acknowledged tension in balancing avowed factors with unavowed and disavowed factors; when directly asked, they found it difficult to acknowledge that unavowed and disavowed factors could lead to patient harm.   CONCLUSIONS Some factors that are not directly related to the patient enter into surgeons' intraoperative decision making. Although these are probably reasonable to consider within 'real-world' practice, they are not sanctioned in current patient care constructs or taught to trainees. Acknowledging unavowed and disavowed factors as sources of pressure in practice may foster critical self-reflection and transparency when discussing surgical errors.
Board-certifying systems play an important role as guideposts in postgraduate training courses to develop superior surgeons with both general and subspecialty surgery competence. The board-certified surgeon designation of the Japan Surgical Society (JSS) as the first guidepost has provided the foundations for board-certified surgeon systems of subspecialty surgical societies as the second guidepost. In April 2010, the National Clinical Database (NCD) was founded by the JSS and other societies. Data on surgery and treatment have been entered into the NCD from January 1, 2011, and more than 1 million cases were submitted to the NCD in that year. The NCD is an unprecedented, advanced activity. The data will be used for the authorization of board-certified surgeons of subspecialty surgical societies as well as that of the JSS. The data will be also used for benchmarking, and clinical research teams will cooperate with the NCD.
BACKGROUND Data are currently lacking regarding the quality of life of surgical oncology (SO) trainees. We sought to assess the training conditions and quality of life of SO residents and fellows across Europe.   MATERIAL AND METHODS Members of the European Society for Surgical Oncology were invited to complete a Web-based survey that included a questionnaire specifically designed for SO trainees. Demographics, timing, and incentive to choose for SO, quality of life, and symptoms of fatigue, sleepiness, depression, and burnout, as well as self-reported medical errors, were assessed using validated instruments.   RESULTS The survey was completed by 109 residents and 53 fellows (mean age 34.6 짹 8.2). The mean Linear Analog Scale Assessment score for quality of life was 34.8 짹 8.6 out of a possible 50. A low level of fatigue was declared by 60% of the trainees. However, 44% scored an abnormal Epworth Sleepiness score, which was mostly related to in-hospital work time and lack of educational programs. High positive screenings regarding depression (51%) and burnout (25%) were associated with resident status and lack of mentorship, respectively. Major medical errors during the last 3 months were self-reported by 20% of the trainees.   CONCLUSIONS In Europe, the perceived quality of life is overall acceptable among trainees in SO. However, the present study demonstrated a high level of sleepiness, depression, and burnout symptoms. Additional work is required to identify and overcome the underlying causes of these symptoms.
BACKGROUND With nearly 53 million ambulatory procedures performed annually, future efforts to achieve greater value in surgical care should include a focus on outpatient surgery. To inform such efforts, a better understanding of specialty-specific trends in outpatient surgery is required.   OBJECTIVES To assess the prevalence and distribution of outpatient surgery across specialties.   RESEARCH DESIGN Repeated cross-sectional.   MEASURES Using all-payer data from Florida (1998-2008), we identified physicians who performed one or more procedures. We assigned a specialty to each physician based on his procedure mix. After measuring the proportion of procedures performed on an outpatient basis, we assessed for specialty-specific changes over time in this proportion. Finally, we determined the frequency with which individual specialties used surgery centers for their outpatient care.   RESULTS More than two thirds (67.8%) of all surgical procedures are carried out on an outpatient basis. The popularity of outpatient surgery has grown among many specialties over the past decade, including several (urology, gastroenterology, plastic surgery, and ophthalmology) that perform most of their cases in outpatient settings. Within surgical disciplines, overall trends in the use of outpatient surgery are strongly associated with the specialty's affinity for freestanding ambulatory surgery centers (Pearson's correlation coefficient = 0.76; P < .001).   CONCLUSIONS A majority of surgeons in many specialties now provide predominantly outpatient care. Incorporating these findings into the design of future payment and delivery system reforms will help ensure adequate surgeon exposure to the efficiency gains that evolve from them.
BACKGROUND During the last two decades, the complexity of surgical patient care has increased dramatically. Nonetheless, there is substantial need to improve the quality of surgical research in Germany.   PURPOSE Herein, we present the current concepts of the German Society of Surgery, the Section of Surgical Research, the Study Center of the German Surgical Society, and the German Surgical Trial Network (CHIR-Net) and their perspectives to promote young surgeons for a career in academic surgery and to improve the quality of surgical research in experimental studies as well as in clinical trials. The concepts include also education, teaching, and mentoring in order to strengthen the research profile of surgical departments and surgical research institutes.   CONCLUSIONS We feel that realization of these concepts should guarantee the survival of the surgeon-scientist across all surgical subspecialties, increase the attractiveness of academic positions in surgery, and promote translational research from bench to bedside with a benefit for patient care.
Although hand surgeons may often see patients with arm and hand pain, numbness and tingling in their practice, the possibility of the presence of thoracic outlet compression syndrome (TOCS) is not often considered. In our practice almost half of newly referred patients have the complaint of upper extremity pain, numbness and tingling. In approximately 50% of these patients detailed history and physical examination are suggestive of TOCS. For this reason it is quite important to recognize the possibility of the existence of this condition. Very often in the past, and occasionally today, this condition has been considered a controversial subject by numerous physicians because of the absence of objective findings in many patients. For several years it has been very well known that the objective findings are present in about 10% of patients and the remaining 90% of patients have subjective complaints. For this reason it has been one of the most commonly underrated, overlooked, and misdiagnosed conditions. During the last 22 years our experience with combined surgical approach for this condition (transaxillary first rib resection with immediate transcervical anterior and middle scalenectomy) has been quite satisfactory. During these years over 850 of these procedures were performed. Between 1989 and 2002 (13 years) 532 patients from a wide geographic area had this combined approach procedure. We were able to locate 358 of these patients for follow-up and of those only 102 responded to our questionnaire. Of the 102 who responded, 95 reported improvement of their symptoms. From 2003 to the middle of 2012, 350 patients from a wide region had this combined procedure. We sent a questionnaire to these patients and had only 57 to respond. Of those who responded, there were 19 bilateral interventions performed a few months apart, with a total of 76 procedures performed. Results based on these 76 procedures revealed 95% improvement of their symptoms. This combined approach for TOCS is the most complete intervention with high rate of improvement and low rate of recurrences.
BACKGROUND Cosmetic procedures, particularly those that are minimally invasive, are in demand. The physician specialties performing these procedures are not well-characterized.   OBJECTIVE To examine changes in the frequency of cosmetic dermatologic procedures performed in the United States from 1995 to 2010 and the physician specialties performing them.   METHODS The volume of cosmetic procedures performed by physician specialties and the types of cosmetic procedures performed were determined from data from the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NAMCS) from 1995 to 2010.   RESULTS Cosmetic procedures constituted 8.7% of all skin procedures and have increased since 1995 (p혻<혻.001). Botulinum toxin injections were the most frequently performed cosmetic procedure and increased at the greatest rate over time. Plastic surgeons performed the largest proportion of cosmetic procedures (36.1%), followed by dermatologists (33.7%), but other specialties have been performing an increasing proportion of cosmetic procedures. This study was limited to the provision of outpatient procedures, and the nationally representative data of the NAMCS is subject to sample bias.   CONCLUSIONS Plastic surgeons and other physicians performed the majority of outpatient cosmetic procedures. Dermatologists performed one-third of ambulatory cosmetic procedures from 1995 to 2010. This broadening spectrum of physicians and nonphysicians providing cosmetic procedures may have important implications for patient safety.
Though technical aspects of surgical practice are commonly emphasized, communication is the most frequent 'procedure' employed by surgeons. A good patient-physician relationship enhances the quality of surgical care by improving outcomes and patient and family satisfaction. There are general principles that can enhance communication with all children and families. Employing a developmentally sensitive approach that adjusts communication style based on a child's cognitive abilities and emotional concerns can further enhance the relationship with children of different ages. These communication skills can be learned and are improved by practice and self-reflection.
The working relationship between parents and surgeons is fundamental in providing excellent health care to children and adolescents. The breakdown of this working relationship has a significant potential for detrimental effects on individual well-being and adverse systemic outcomes. Collaborative, deferential, and problematic partnership types of family participation in medical decision-making are important models to understand in enhancing and maintaining successful working relationships. A pragmatic approach involving prevention, recognition, and resolution steps is outlined that can help surgeons to avoid as well as to respond effectively to difficult and stressful interactions with parents.
The mind-body connection is receiving increasing scrutiny in a large number of clinical settings, although research has lagged in the pediatric specialties. Psychoneuroimmunology (PNI) is a novel interdisciplinary scientific field that examines the relationship of the mind to the patient's neurologic, endocrine, and immune systems by examining critical parameters such as the effects of mental stress on wound healing and infection rates. Techniques that modify a patient's emotional and mental responses to illness and surgery have positive effects on their physiology resulting in improved recoveries and higher patient satisfaction rates. In the appropriate clinical settings, an awareness of PNI can enhance outcomes for pediatric surgical patients.
The cultural, ethnic, religious, socioeconomic, and educational diversity of the patient population and the expanded surgical options provided by innovation and technology can pose significant ethical challenges. The questions confronting pediatric surgeons and their patients' families have greater complexity, and both the pediatric surgeon and the family perceive increasing vulnerability and uncertainty. The analysis and management of ethical issues in pediatric surgery cannot simply be extrapolated from the approach applied to adult cases. By reviewing the history of the events that contributed to the creation and utilization of hospital ethics committees and examining the role of the ethics consultant in the context of pediatric surgical care, practitioners and trainees will be better able to address these multifaceted situations.
Palliative care is now a core component of pediatric care for children and families who are confronting serious illness with a low likelihood of survival. Pediatric surgeons, in partnership with pediatric palliative care teams, can play a pivotal role in assuring that these patients receive the highest possible quality of care. This article outlines a variety of definitions and conceptual frameworks, describes decision-making strategies and communication techniques, addresses issues of interdisciplinary collaboration and personal self-awareness, and illustrates these points through a series of case vignettes, all of which can help the pediatric surgeon perform the core tasks of pediatric palliative care.
The optimal care of children with surgical diseases requires acquiring skills in the psychosocial assessment and therapy of children. Developing and implementing a curriculum to teach these concepts to pediatric surgery trainees should result in decreased perioperative stress for the child and improved patient outcomes and family satisfaction.
INTRODUCTION Previous studies, including research published more than 10 years ago in Northern Alberta, have demonstrated improved outcomes with increased surgical volume and subspecialisation in the treatment of rectal cancer. We sought to examine contemporary rectal cancer care in the same region to determine whether practice patterns have changed and whether outcomes have improved.   METHODS We reviewed the charts of all patients with rectal adenocarcinoma diagnosed between 1998 and 2003 who had a potentially curative resection. The main outcomes examined were 5-year local recurrence (LR) and disease-specific survival (DSS). Surgeons were classified into 3 groups according to training and volume, and we compared outcome measures among them. We also compared our results to those of the previous study from our region.   RESULTS We included 433 cases in the study. Subspecialty-trained colorectal surgeons performed 35% of all surgeries in our study compared to 16% in the previous study. The overall 5-year LR rate and DSS in our study were improved compared to the previous study. On multivariate analysis, the only factor associated with increased 5-year LR was presence of obstruction, and the factors associated with decreased 5-year DSS were high-volume noncolorectal surgeons, presence of obstruction and increased stage.   CONCLUSION Over the past 10 years, the long-term outcomes of treatment for rectal cancer have improved. We found that surgical subspecialization was associated with improved DSS but not LR. Increased surgical volume was not associated with LR or DSS.
BACKGROUND Concerns regarding preparation of residents for independent surgical practice are widespread and support for junior surgeons entering practice is variable across institutions and practices. The American College of Surgeons (ACS) Division of Education partnered with the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) to convene a National Invitational Conference to define key issues relating to the transition to practice and develop recommendations to address various challenges.   OUTCOMES OF THE NATIONAL INVITATIONAL CONFERENCE Leaders from ACS, ACGME, certifying boards, residency review committees, program director organizations, and professional societies representing the breadth of surgical specialties, along with other key stakeholders, were invited to participate in the 1.5-day conference in July 2012. Key recommendations generated during the conference included the need to focus on the transition to practice within the context of the continuum of professional development; definition of specific levels of knowledge and skills expected of graduating surgery residents; development and adoption of competency-based methods for training, assessment, and advancement of residents; implementation of special interventions during the chief resident year to prepare residents for practice; robust evaluations of residents before graduation; intake assessments of junior surgeons during the onboarding processes; and effective mentorship for junior surgeons as they enter practice. Recommendations also highlighted major regulatory, legal, and financial issues. The key role of ACS and other national organizations in implementing the recommendations was underscored.   CONCLUSION The recommendations from the conference should be of great help in addressing various challenges associated with the transition from surgery residency to independent practice.
BACKGROUND General surgery residency training has changed with adoption of the 80-hour work week, patient expectations, and the malpractice environment, resulting in decreased resident autonomy during the chief resident year. There is considerable concern that graduating residents are not prepared for independent surgical practice.   STUDY DESIGN Two online surveys were developed, one for 'young surgeons' (American College of Surgeons [ACS] Fellows 45 years of age and younger) and one for 'older surgeons' (ACS Fellows older than 45 years of age). The surveys were distributed by email to 2,939 young and 9,800 older surgeons. The last question was open-ended with a request to provide comments. A qualitative and quantitative analysis of all comments was performed.   RESULTS The response rate was 9.6% (282 of 2,939) of young and 10% (978 of 9,800) of older surgeons. The majority of young surgeons (94% [58.7% strongly agree, 34.9% agree]) stated they had adequate surgical training and were prepared for transition to the surgery attending role (91% [49.6% strongly agree, 41.1% agree]). In contrast, considerably fewer older surgeons believed that there was adequate surgical training (59% [18.7% strongly agree, 40.2% agree]) or adequate preparation for transition to the surgery attending role (53% [16.93% strongly agree, 36.13% agree]). The 2 groups' responses were significantly different, chi-square test of association (3) = 15.73, p = 0.0012. Older surgeons focused considerably more on residency issues (60% vs 42%, respectively), and young surgeons focused considerably more on business and practice issues (30% vs 14%, respectively).   CONCLUSIONS Young and older surgeons' perceptions of general surgery residents' readiness to practice independently after completion of general surgery residency differ significantly. Future work should focus on determination of specific efforts to improve the transition to independent surgery practice for the general surgery resident.
BACKGROUND Since their introduction several years ago, integrated (0혻+혻5) vascular surgery residency programs are being increasingly developed across the country. To date, however, there is no defined 'universal' curriculum for these programs and each program is responsible for creating its own curriculum. The aim of this study was to review the experiences of current 0혻+혻5 program directors (PDs) to determine what factors contributed to the curricular development within their institution.   METHODS Semistructured interviews were conducted with 0혻+혻5 PDs to explore their experiences with program development, factors influencing the latter, and rationale for current curricula. The interview script was loosely structured to explore several factors including time of incoming residents' first exposure to the vascular surgical service, timing and rationale behind the timing of core surgical rotations throughout the 5혻year program, educational value of nonsurgical rotations, opportunities for leadership and scholarly activity, and influence the general surgery program and institutional climate had on curricular structure. All interviews were conducted by a single interviewer. All interviews were qualitatively analyzed using emergent theme analysis.   RESULTS Twenty-six 0혻+혻5 PDs participated in the study. A total of 69% believed establishing professional identity early reduces resident attrition and recommend starting incoming trainees on vascular surgical services. Sixty-two percent spread core surgical rotations over the first 3 years to optimize general surgical exposure and most of the programs have eliminated specific rotations, as they were not considered valuable to the goals of training. Factors considered most important by PDs in curricular development include building on existing institutional opportunities (96%), avoiding rotations considered unsuccessful by 'experienced' programs (92%), and maintaining a good working relationship with general surgery (77%). Fifty-eight percent of PDs voiced concern over the lack of standardization among the differing programs and most of the PDs agree that some degree of programmatic standardization is critical for the continued success of the 0혻+혻5 training paradigm.   CONCLUSIONS Qualitative evaluation of PD experiences with the development of 0혻+혻5 vascular surgery residency programs reveals the key factors that commonly influence program혻design. Programs continue to evolve in both structure and content as PDs respond to these influences. Learning from the collective experience of PDs and some standardization of the curricula may help current and future programs avoid common pitfalls in curricular development.
BACKGROUND Recent studies on court cases dealing with medical malpractice are few and far between. This retrospective study, therefore, undertakes an analysis of medical malpractice lawsuits brought before regional courts in two judicial districts of the federal state of Hesse.   METHODS Over a 5-year period (2006-2010), 232 court decisions on medical malpractice taken by the regional courts (Landgericht) of Kassel and Marburg were evaluated according to medical discipline, diagnosis, therapy, relevant level of care, charge of neglect of duty by the claimant party, outcome of the lawsuit, and further criteria.   RESULTS With certain overlaps, the disciplines most frequently confronted with claims of medical malpractice were accident surgery and orthopedics (30.2%; n=70), dentistry (16.4%; n=38), surgery (12.1%; n=28), and gynecology and obstetrics (7.8%; n=18), followed by the remaining medical disciplines (38.8%; n=90). Malpractice allegations were brought against the practice-based sector in 35.8 % (n=83) of cases, the hospital-based sector in 63.3% (n=147) of cases, and other sectors in 0.9% (n=2) of cases. The allegation grounds included false administration of treatment (67.2%; n=156), false indication of treatment (37.1%; n=86), false diagnosis (31.5%; n=73), and/or organizational negligence (13.8%; n=32). A breach of duty to inform was given as grounds for the claim in 38.8% (n=90) of cases. A significant majority of 65.6% (n=152) of cases ended in a court settlement. Of the cases, 18.9% (n=44) were concluded by claim withdrawal, 11.2% (n=26) by claim dismissal and 2.6% (n=6) by criminal sentence. Of the cases, 1.7% (n=4) were for purposes of securing evidence.   CONCLUSION Although there was no conclusive evidence of malpractice, two thirds of the cases ended in a court settlement. On the one hand, this outcome reduces the burden on the courts, but on the other, it can in the long term give rise to expectations that doctors will accept liability even in cases of inevitable deterioration following due and proper treatment.
Within modern medicine at the beginning of 21st century, we are witnessing a revolutionary development of the invasive diagnostics and therapy of cardiovascular system diseases. With the discovery of X-rays at the end of 19th century by Wilhelm Roentgen, it is appropriate to reflect on the gifted individuals whose efforts drastically altered radiology and cardiology. The early techniques used in peripheral percutaneous transluminal angioplasty form the basis for subsequent percutaneous intervention both in the peripheral and coronary arteries and are largely the contribution of Charles Dotter. The main goal of his work was the use of catheters for diagnosis and treatment in an attempt to replace the scalpel. He was 20 years ahead of his time, especially with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. The first percutaneous transluminal angioplasty marked a new era in the treatment of peripheral atherosclerotic lesions. This practical genius dedicated his considerable energy to the belief that there is always a better way to treat disease. His personal contributions to clinical medicine, research, and teaching have saved millions of limbs and lives all over the world. European physicians, who were more open to unproven techniques, almost immediately embraced percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. Without the contribution and help of his colleagues, Forssmann, Sones and Gruntzig, all of them pioneers, nothing would be done.They were all ahead of there time and opened completely new chapter in medicine.
BACKGROUND Recent studies have documented improved outcomes for patients undergoing colorectal cancer resection at NCI cancer centers compared to hospitals without this designation. Proposed contributory factors include a higher proportion of surgeons with specialty training in colorectal surgery and surgical oncology. The purpose of this study was to assess whether surgeon specialization is associated with differences in overall survival following colon cancer resection at an NCI cancer center.   METHODS We conducted a retrospective review of patients undergoing colectomy for colon cancer from 1994 to 2009 at Duke University Medical Center. Patients were divided into two groups based on specialization status of the attending surgeon, and several clinicopathologic variables were compared. A multivariate analysis was then performed examining variables influencing overall survival.   RESULTS Total of 395 patients were included in the study, with 335 patients operated on by specialty-trained surgeons and 60 patients operated on by non-specialists. Overall, the two groups were similar with respect to demographic and pathologic variables. On multivariate analysis, surgeon specialization was found to be an independent predictor of improved overall survival [HR 0.43 (CI: 0.25-0.75), P=0.003].   CONCLUSION Surgeon specialization appears to be associated with improved overall survival in the setting of an NCI-designated cancer center.
OBJECTIVE To determine whether postoperative cardiac care by cardiothoracic surgeons in a semiclosed intensive care unit model could be distinguished from that given by intensivists who are not board certified in cardiothoracic surgery.   DESIGN From January 2007 to February 2009, we retrospectively examined data on patients after cardiac operations from 2 consecutive periods during which full-time management of intensive care was changed from noncardiothoracic intensivists (period 1, 168 patients) to cardiothoracic surgeons (period 2, 272 patients).   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Variables measured included Society of Thoracic Surgeons observed and expected mortality, central venous line infections, ventilator-acquired pneumonia, red blood cell exposure, adherence to blood glucose level target at 6 am on the first and second postoperative days, length of stay, and intensive care unit pharmacy costs. Results were compared using a 2-sample t test or 2-tailed Fisher exact test.   RESULTS In similar populations, as witnessed by equivalent Society of Thoracic Surgeons operative risk, cardiothoracic surgeons providing postoperative critical care led to a mean (SD) decrease in hospital length of stay from 13.4혻(0.9) to 11.2 (0.4) days (P혻=혻.01) and decreased drug costs from $4300혻(1000) to $1800혻혻(200) (P혻<혻.001). These improvements occurred without losing benefits in other quality measures.   CONCLUSIONS By virtue of their cardiac-specific operative and nonoperative training, cardiothoracic surgeons may be uniquely qualified to provide postoperative cardiac critical care. In a semiclosed unit where care of the patient is codirected, the improvements noted may have been facilitated by the commonalities between surgeons and intensivists associated with similar training and experiences.
HYPOTHESIS Rates of relapse, monitoring contract completion, and return to medical practice may differ between surgeons and nonsurgeons being monitored for diagnosed substance use disorders.   DESIGN Retrospective 5-year longitudinal cohort study.   SETTING A sample of 16 state physician health programs in the United States.   PARTICIPANTS Nine hundred four physicians who underwent treatment for a substance use disorder and were consecutively admitted to 1 of 16 state physician health programs between September 1, 1995, and September 1, 2001. The study analyzed a subset of data comparing 144 surgeons with 636 nonsurgeons.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Rates of continued drug and alcohol misuse (relapse), monitoring contract completion, and return to medical practice at 5 years.   RESULTS Surgeons were significantly more likely than nonsurgeons to enroll in a physician health program because of alcohol-related problems (odds ratio, 1.9; 95% CI, 1.3-2.7; P = .001) and were less likely to enroll because of opioid use (odds ratio, 0.5; 95% CI, 0.3-0.8, P = .002). Surgeons were neither more nor less likely than nonsurgeons to have a positive drug test result, complete or fail to complete the monitoring contract, or extend the monitoring period beyond the original 5 years specified in their agreements. Fewer surgeons than nonsurgeons were licensed and practicing medicine at the conclusion of the monitoring period, although this difference was not statistically significant.   CONCLUSIONS Surgeons in this study had positive outcomes similar to those of nonsurgeons. However, further research is necessary to conclude whether surgeons are less likely than their nonsurgeon peers to successfully return to medical practice following chemical dependency treatment.
OBJECTIVE To examine surgeon career phase and its association with surgical workload composition and outcomes of surgery.   DESIGN Cross-sectional study.   SETTING The study used data from calendar years 2004 through 2006 from 4 Florida general surgeon (GS) cohorts determined by years since board certification.   PARTICIPANTS American Board of Surgery-certified GSs regardless of subspecialty (n = 1187) performing 460 881 operations on adults 18 years or older.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Workload composition based on the Clinical Classification System, complications identified by patient safety indicators, and in-hospital mortality. Poisson regression with robust error variance estimated adjusted rate ratios (RRs) for complications and mortality.   RESULTS Compared with late-career surgeons, the rate of complications from cardiovascular procedures was higher for surgeons in the early-career phase (RR, 1.23; 95% CI, 1.06-1.44) and the late middle-career phase (1.18; 1.02-1.37). The mortality rate for cardiovascular procedures also was higher for early-career surgeons (RR, 1.23; 95% CI, 1.04-1.46). For digestive procedures, early-career surgeons had lower complication rates than late-career surgeons (RR, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.75-0.99).   CONCLUSION Late-career GSs perform both better and worse compared with early-career GSs, relative to their workload composition and proportional surgical volume. Factors such as training and case complexity may contribute to these career-phase differences.
PURPOSE Multiple procedures have been described for trapeziometacarpal (TM) osteoarthritis with varying levels of evidence support. The purpose of this study was to evaluate current trends in the treatment of TM arthritis by surveying active members of the American Society for Surgery of the Hand.   METHODS We sent an online questionnaire to the e-mail addresses of 2,326 active members of the American Society for Surgery of the Hand, consisting of 5 treatment and 2 demographic questions. Surgeons were contacted twice by e-mail and provided with a link to a de-identified online survey. We performed statistical analysis of correlations between demographics and treatment preferences using chi-square testing.   RESULTS We received responses from 1,156 out of 2,326 hand surgeons, a response rate of 50%. The vast majority of surgeons use corticosteroid injections for TM arthritis, and 719 out of 1,156 perform trapeziectomy with ligament reconstruction and tendon interposition (LRTI) for common Eaton stage III arthritis. For scaphotrapeziotrapezoid (STT) arthritis, approximately half of respondents also perform trapeziectomy/LRTI, followed by STT fusion. For a younger woman with minimal radiographic change and pain, 535 out of 1,142 surgeon respondents would advocate continued conservative treatment, whereas the remainder chose Eaton ligament reconstruction, arthroscopy, and metacarpal osteotomy.   CONCLUSIONS This survey study presents the current opinions of a group of hand surgeons who responded to an online questionnaire regarding treatment of TM arthritis. The results show that trapeziectomy/LRTI is the treatment of choice by most respondents. The use of trapeziectomy/LRTI in the treatment of STT arthritis has not been studied in depth, but this procedure was chosen by half the respondents. The process of choosing treatment strategies is a question for future study.   TYPE OF STUDY/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE Prognostic IV.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW The number of patients receiving cardiac resynchronization therapies (CRTs) is increasing at a substantial rate. The implant, however, is not always performed effectively and the complication rates are considerable. The training and accreditation to perform CRT need to be evaluated to optimize procedural and patient outcomes.   RECENT FINDINGS The relationship between higher procedural volumes and reduced procedural complications is evident and consistent across a range of surgical specialties and procedures. Present guidelines recommend that training in CRT can be achieved with five to 25 cases. The limited studies in this area suggest that this is inadequate, with complication rates of CRT reducing significantly with procedural experience well beyond 100 cases.There is increasing evidence that the development of procedural skills is dependent not only on cognitive factors, but also on a number of intrinsic visuospatial factors and fine motor dexterity. These factors can be tested objectively and the validity of adopting these techniques for the selection and training of operators is being evaluated.   SUMMARY Ongoing evaluation of the training requirements and accreditation is required to optimize the implantation of CRT.
BACKGROUND The last decade has seen the evolution of vascular surgery from a sub-specialty of general surgery to that of an independent, stand-alone specialty. The introduction of a vascular-only curriculum is anticipated to require significant change from the current provision for vascular surgical training to allow vascular trainees to acquire the specialist skills in elective, emergency, and endovascular surgery to provide endovascular services in the future.   AIM To provide an insight into current vascular training in Scotland and Northern Ireland.   METHOD Specialty trainees in general surgery, with a sub-specialty interest in vascular in Scotland and Northern Ireland were asked to carry out a voluntary online survey between May 2012 and July 2012.   RESULTS 22 specialty trainees/specialist registrars who have declared a sub-specialty interest in vascular surgery were identified and polled. 20 trainees completed the survey. 13 trainees still participated in general surgical on-call rotas. Formal teaching opportunities were readily available but only 10 trainees could attend regularly. All trainees worked in units offering endovascular treatment for aneurysm and occlusive disease, but few had dedicated training sessions in endovascular skills. All endovascular simulation-based training was industry sponsored. The majority of trainees report a good overall training experience and are keen to see the implementation of a vascular-specific curriculum. 15 trainees had undertaken a dedicated period of research towards a higher degree, with only 50% based on a vascular topic.   CONCLUSION The majority of trainees reported a positive training experience with Scotland and Northern Ireland having great potential as vascular training deaneries. The survey identifies specific areas that could be improved by the development of the new curriculum in vascular surgery to provide excellent vascular training in Scotland and Northern Ireland.
BACKGROUND As all tertiary paediatric hospitals are based in the capital of Dublin, it is therefore necessary for general surgeons in centres outside of Dublin to undertake routine elective and emergency paediatric surgery to provide children with care close to home. The aim of this study is to assess the volume and type of procedures this entails.   METHODS Prospective analysis of the elective and emergency paediatric surgical services provided by a single surgeon in a regional university hospital to determine the volume and nature of general paediatric operative procedures performed.   RESULTS There were 126 operative procedures performed on patients less than 16 years of age during a 12-month period, accounting for 22.8 % of all operations. There were 56 emergency (44.4 %) and 70 elective procedures (55.5 %). The median age was 4.7 years (median age for emergencies 5.4 years, median age for elective surgery 3.8 years). Paediatric operations accounted for 23.4 % of all emergency and 26.2 % of all elective operations. The most commonly performed emergency operations were appendicectomies and pyloromyotomies, representing 73 % of all emergency cases. Inguinal hernia repair, excision of ingrown toenail and percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube insertion represented 61 % of elective procedures.   CONCLUSIONS The range of procedures in general paediatric surgery is small with only five procedures representing the majority of all elective and emergency procedures performed. This suggests that a period of specialist paediatric surgery training would enable more general surgeons to provide this vital service.
This review focuses on how surgical methods should be assessed from a health technology perspective. The use of randomized controlled trials, population based registries, systematic literature research and the recently published IDEAL method are briefly discussed.
BACKGROUND Lean is a management system designed to enhance productivity by eliminating waste. Surgical practice offers many opportunities for improving efficiency. Our objective was to determine whether systematic implementation of lean thinking in an academic otolaryngology operating room improves efficiency and profitability and preserves team morale and educational opportunities.   STUDY DESIGN In an 18-month prospective quasi-experimental study, a multidisciplinary task force systematically implemented lean thinking within an otolaryngology operating room of an academic health system. Operating room turnover time and turnaround time were measured during a baseline period; an observer-effect period in which workers were made aware that their efficiency was being measured but before implementing lean changes; and an intervention period after redesign principles had been used. The impact on teamwork, morale, and surgical resident education were measured during the baseline and intervention periods through validated surveys. A profit model was applied to estimate the financial implications of the study.   RESULTS There was no difference between the baseline and observer-effect periods of the study for turnover time (p = 0.98) or turnaround time (p = 0.20). During the intervention period, the mean turnover time and turnaround time were significantly shorter than during the baseline period (29 vs 38 minutes; p < 0.001 and 69 vs 89 minutes; p < 0.001, respectively). The composite morale score suggested improved morale after implementation (p = 0.011). Educational metrics were unchanged before and after implementation. The annual opportunity revenue for the involved operating room is $330,000; when extrapolated throughout the operating rooms, lean thinking could create 6,500 hours of capacity annually.   CONCLUSIONS Application of lean management techniques to a single operating room and surgical service improved operating room efficiency and morale, sustained resident education, and can provide considerable financial gains when scaled to an entire academic surgical suite.
BACKGROUND The American College of Surgeons (ACS) Case Log represents a data system that satisfies the American Board of Surgery (ABS) Maintenance of Certification (MOC) program, yet has broad data fields for surgical subspecialties. Using the ACS Case Log, we have developed a method of data capture, categorization, and reporting of acute care surgery fellows' experiences.   STUDY DESIGN In July 2010, our acute care surgery fellowship required our fellows to log their clinical experiences into the ACS Case Log. Cases were entered similar to billable documentation rules. Keywords were entered that specified institutional services and/or resuscitation types. These data were exported in comma separated value format, deidentified, structured by Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) codes relevant to acute care surgery, and substratified by fellow and/or fellow year.   RESULTS Fifteen report types were created consisting of operative experience by service, procedure by major category (cardiothoracic, vascular, solid organ, abdominal wall, hollow viscus, and soft tissue), total resuscitations, ultrasound, airway, ICU services, basic neurosurgery, and basic orthopaedics. Results are viewable via a secure Web application, accessible nationally, and exportable to many formats.   CONCLUSIONS Using the ACS Case Log satisfies the ABS MOC program requirements and provides a method for monitoring and reporting acute care surgery fellow experiences. This system is flexible to accommodate the needs of surgical subspecialties and their training programs. As documentation requirements expand, efficient clinical documentation is a must for the busy surgeon. Although, our data entry and processing method has the immediate capacity for acute care surgery fellowships nationwide, multiple larger decisions regarding national case log systems should be encouraged.
INTRODUCTION We postulated that a closed claim review of surgical cases would identify not only the quality of care elements but also factors that will predict successful legal outcomes.   METHODS One hundred eighty-seven closed surgical cases from a single carrier, which insured physicians practicing in 4 university hospitals in New York State, were reviewed, cataloged, and analyzed.   RESULTS Most suits occurred during midcareer and routine operations. Seventy-three percent of cases were won. The average payment and expenses per case were $220,846 짹 $38,984 and $40,175 짹 $4,204, respectively. Poor communication was identified in 24% of cases and was a predictor of a negative outcome (41% lost, P < .05), as was inadequate attending supervision (46% lost, P < .05). Expert reviews incriminated or exculpated physician defendants in 85 cases, which affected the outcome and cost. The quality of the physician defendant as a witness also affected the outcome.   CONCLUSIONS Most surgical malpractice claims are won. Although supervision, communication, and aggressive risk management are important, the use of quality experts and establishing credibility of the physician defendant are critical for successful legal outcome.
Numerous articles and opinions have been published in the last few years on how the Internet is changing clinical practice. In this article we focus on describing 2 aspects that we believe are fundamental in the web 2.0 and Medicine-Surgery inter-relationship: a) web 2.0 conceptualisation and its differences with other pre-existing tools, and b) a description of some of the tools that from a medical-surgical view could be of major interest to the professionals, the patients, and interaction between both. The time has arrived to board train 2.0, where the channels of communication between the professionals, and between them and the patients, are improving disease situations daily, to improve learning through contact with other physicians and surgeons, at the same time providing an excellent resource for maintaining health and to know the disease and its treatment.
INTRODUCTION Centralisation of oesophagogastric (OG) resectional services has been proposed to improve patient outcomes in terms of perioperative mortality and long-term survival. Centralisation of services occurred in Gloucester 5 years ago. The aim of this paper is to assess if local patient outcomes have benefited from centralisation.   METHODS All oesophagogastric resections performed in our unit over a 15-year period (10-years pre-centralisation and 5-years post-centralisation) were assessed retrospectively. Patient demographics, pathological details and date of death were identified. Perioperative mortality (30 and 90 day) and estimated Kaplan-Meier survival was compared for cases performed pre- and post-centralisation of services.   RESULTS 456 resections for cancer were performed in the 15-year period; 234 of these were performed pre-centralisation (mean 23.4, range 13-31) and 222 were performed post-centralisation (mean 44.4, range 40-50). Median survival rates for gastric cancer were 1.1 years pre-centralisation and 1.5 years post-centralisation (p = 0.147) and median survival for oesophageal cancer improved from 1.1 years to 2.1 respectively (p = 0.028). Combined OG 30-day mortality rates improved from 10.3% pre-centralisation to 3.6% post-centralisation (p = 0.006, Fisher's exact test).   DISCUSSION Centralisation of OG services in Gloucester has resulted in twice as many resections being performed locally. Median survival for patients with oesophageal cancer has increased by 1 year and the 30-day mortality rate following resection has reduced by almost two thirds. Although other factors (such as improvements in oncological treatments, staging and critical care management over the 15-year time period) have undoubtedly had roles to play in these improvements, the results of this study support the policy of centralisation of upper GI cancer services.
Cancer is one of the leading causes of death worldwide. The global cancer burden (GCB) is expected to rise significantly and will disproportionately affect the less developed world (LDW). The aim of this review is to analyze the trends in GCB and describe the types, estimates, and causes of new cancer cases. The challenges and strategies associated with tackling this rising GCB are described in which surgeons can play a vital role.
BACKGROUND Type II error, or not meeting sample-size requirement, has been identified as an issue in the surgical literature. The root of this problem is the low frequency of events in the majority of surgical clinical research. This exponentially increases the sample size needed to achieve statistical significance.   METHODS The methodology and mechanics of sample-size calculations are presented to demonstrate how sample-size requirements change based on baseline event rate and relative reduction in event rate. These concepts are then illustrated using real-life clinical scenarios.   RESULTS If a hypothetical baseline event rate is 1 % and the event rate in the experimental group is 0.5 % (therefore representing a 50 % reduction), then the total number of study patients required is 10,130. If the baseline event rate is 1 %, and the event rate in the experimental group is 0.9 % (a 10 % reduction), then the total number of study patients required is 299,410.   CONCLUSIONS Sample-size calculations are affected by the frequency of the event or events of interest. Given advances in clinical medicine, many clinical outcomes of interest occur at very low frequencies. These low frequencies exponentially increase the sample size required to find statistically significant differences, making randomized clinical trials difficult to conduct properly. Surgical clinical researchers should advocate for the establishment of robust, prospective, large, multi-institutional clinical databases along with the establishment of proper outcomes research methodology as a way to augment randomized trials.
With the rise of new specialities after the World War, the number of OP rooms increases. They became gathered on the basement of buildings near the central sterilisation. To enter the OP room, everyone passes through the dressing 'sas'. 'Slippers', uniforms, gloves and many supplies are now for single-use. Electrified operating tables with their own accessories became very useful. Air conditioning is appreciated too in our countries. The operating microscope for ORL, ophthalmology and neurosurgery is used by every one. In cardiology the coronary revascularisation being common stuff, cardiac transplantation (1967) and open-heart surgery received special attention. Vascular surgeons are dedicated to arteritiden, implants, and aortic aneurysms. Urology is focused on renal transplants (since 1959), and more recently on lithotrity and coelioscopic prostatectomy. The coeliosurgery conquered the abdominal pathology and the endoscopic techniques became current. In neurosurgery, stereotaxy to treat parkinson's disease is not used so often since Levodopa exists. But it is still useful to implant brain-stimulating electrodes for refractory parkinson's cases, some other dyskinesias, mental troubles or epilepsies. The neuronavigation brought new possibilities. At century's end, ambulatory surgery reduces surgical costs. Bigger and multidisciplinary theatres are now preferred. The open-heart surgery assisted by computer and robotics is evolving. Finally, we recall OP room accidents, which are not directly dealing with the operation.
OBJECTIVES To determine whether recent experience and specialty choice would affect physician adherence to evidence-based guidelines.   DESIGN In a series of computer-simulated encounters, participants weighed the risk of spontaneous abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) rupture against the risk of perioperative death to determine timing for elective repair. Guideline recommendations and statistical information on the risks of rupture and surgical death were provided.   SETTING Annual meetings of the American Geriatrics Society, American College of Surgeons, and American Society of Anesthesiologists.   PARTICIPANTS Physicians.   INTERVENTION Before the simulation, each participant was randomly exposed to one of three simulated outcomes: death during watchful waiting (WWD), perioperative death (PD), or successful outcome (SO).   MEASUREMENTS Adherence to recommended guidelines for AAA treatment.   RESULTS Against guideline recommendations, 67% of geriatricians, 74% of anesthesiologists, and 77% of surgeons chose surgery when the rupture risk was lower than the risk of perioperative death (P혻<혻.05). Surgeons exposed to the WWD experience chose surgery significantly earlier than if they were exposed to a PD or SO experience (P혻<혻.001). Anesthesiologist choices did not differ with recent experience.   CONCLUSION Geriatrician decisions more closely followed guideline recommendations for AAA management than those of two other specialties typically involved in AAA care. A prior WWD affected surgeons most, geriatricians next, and anesthesiologists least. Geriatricians referring patients for AAA surgery should be aware of specialty-specific differences in perioperative decision behavior.
BACKGROUND Weight loss is the most commonly used metric in comparing outcomes after bariatric surgery. This is frequently presented in the form of percentage of excess weight loss (%EWL). Patients' weight is measured at several time points prior to surgery. The time point selected as the preoperative weight can have significant effects upon the measurement of %EWL. This study aimed to investigate whether there was any standardization in the selection of preoperative weight amongst UK bariatric surgery healthcare professionals.   METHODS A questionnaire survey was conducted among the delegates at the British Obesity and Metabolic Surgery Society (BOMSS) meeting in January 2011.   RESULTS A total of 54 delegates (consultant & trainee surgeons, bariatric specialist nurses, dieticians and psychologists) responded to the survey. A wide variation was noted in which preoperative weight was used in the calculation of %EWL, both among various disciplines and also among the same disciplines. The majority (61%) used the preoperative weight recorded at the bariatric surgical assessment clinic prior to surgery. 20% of delegates used the highest recorded preoperative weight. The remainder of delegates used weight recorded on the day of surgery (17%) or the weight recorded during the first visit to a medical physician led weight management clinic (2%).   CONCLUSION Variation in the measurement of the preoperative weight will lead to variations of calculated %EWL between different bariatric units or even between different disciplines in the same unit. This will make comparison of published outcome data difficult. This study highlights the urgent need for standardization.
OBJECTIVE To develop a projection model to forecast the head count and full-time equivalent supply of surgeons by age, sex, and specialty in the United States from 2009 to 2028.   SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA The search for the optimal number and specialty mix of surgeons to care for the United States population has taken on increased urgency under health care reform. Expanded insurance coverage and an aging population will increase demand for surgical and other medical services. Accurate forecasts of surgical service capacity are crucial to inform the federal government, training institutions, professional associations, and others charged with improving access to health care.   METHODS The study uses a dynamic stock and flow model that simulates future changes in numbers and specialty type by factoring in changes in surgeon demographics and policy factors.   RESULTS : Forecasts show that overall surgeon supply will decrease 18% during the period form 2009 to 2028 with declines in all specialties except colorectal, pediatric, neurological surgery, and vascular surgery. Model simulations suggest that none of the proposed changes to increase graduate medical education currently under consideration will be sufficient to offset declines.   CONCLUSIONS The length of time it takes to train surgeons, the anticipated decrease in hours worked by surgeons in younger generations, and the potential decreases in graduate medical education funding suggest that there may be an insufficient surgeon workforce to meet population needs. Existing maldistribution patterns are likely to be exacerbated, leading to delayed or lost access to time-sensitive surgical procedures, particularly in rural areas.
BACKGROUND The importance of basic surgical skills is entirely agreed among surgical educators. However, restricted by ethical issues, finance etc, the basic surgical skills training is increasingly challenged. Increasing cost gives an impetus to the development of cost-effective training models to meet the trainees' acquisition of basic surgical skills. In this situation, a cost-effective training framework was formed in our department and introduced here.   METHODS Each five students were assigned to a 'training unit'. The training was implemented weekly for 18 weeks. The framework consisted of an early, a transitional, an integrative stage and a surgical skills competition. Corresponding training modules were selected and assembled scientifically at each stage. The modules comprised campus intranet databases, sponge benchtop, nonliving animal tissue, local dissection specimens and simulating reality operations. The training outcomes used direct observation of procedural skills as an assessment tool. The training data of 50 trainees who were randomly selected in each year from 2006 to 2011 year, were retrospectively analysed.   RESULTS An excellent and good rate of the surgical skills is from 82 to 88%, but there is no significant difference among 6 years (P > 0.05). The skills scores of the contestants are markedly higher than those of non-contestants (P < 0.05). The average training cost per trainee is about $21.85-34.08.   CONCLUSION The present training framework is reliable, feasible, repeatable and cost-effective. The skills competition can promote to improve the surgical skills level of trainees.
A shortage of general surgeons is creating issues for the coverage of many emergency departments. This article outlines a new way of thinking about how to diagnosis and treat this problem. Learn the basics behind the possible creation of a surgical hospitalist program from assessing the need; reviewing physician issues; computing the financial analysis; understanding the political and bureaucratic issues; and, finally, recruiting to fill the positions.
This article describes the development of a new service - the post-anaesthesia care unit (PACU) - that provides extended care in a recovery unit for patients who would have formerly been 'fast-tracked' through a high dependency unit (HDU). Patients requiring major surgery who stay in the recovery unit overnight are invasively monitored, have tight fluid management, blood chemistry analysis and frequently have pharmacological support. However, our overnight recovery service is not considered suitable for ventilated patients. Over 90% of patients are able to be discharged to a surgical ward within 24 hours of admission, following medical review.
OBJECTIVE The high degree of heterogeneity in the development of depression under stress is unaccounted for in traditional statistical modeling. We employ growth mixture modeling to identify classes of individuals at highest risk of depression under stress.   METHOD Medical internship was used as a prospective stress model. Interns from US residency programs completed demographic, psychological, and depressive symptom assessments 2 months prior to internship and at 3-month intervals throughout internship year.   RESULTS A total of 2278 (59%) of interns chose to take part in the study. Three classes of depressive symptoms were identified: i) Stress-resilient class: 62% of participants report low depressive symptoms before and throughout internship year; ii) Stress-neutral class: 22% of participants report mild depressive symptoms before and throughout internship year; and iii) Stress-sensitive class: 16% of participants report low depressive symptoms before internship stress, and high levels of depressive symptoms throughout internship year. Individuals in the Stress-sensitive class were more likely to be female, in a surgical specialty, and have a history of depression, difficulty early family environment and high-neuroticism scores compared with individuals in the Stress-resilient class.   CONCLUSION Trajectory-based analysis allows for the identification of a high-risk group, within a heterogeneous population, that accounts for the link between stress and depression.
BACKGROUND Preoperative simulation warm-up has been shown to improve performance and reduce errors in novice and experienced surgeons, yet existing studies have only investigated conventional laparoscopy. We hypothesized that a brief virtual reality (VR) robotic warm-up would enhance robotic task performance and reduce errors.   STUDY DESIGN In a 2-center randomized trial, 51 residents and experienced minimally invasive surgery faculty in General Surgery, Urology, and Gynecology underwent a validated robotic surgery proficiency curriculum on a VR robotic simulator and on the da Vinci surgical robot (Intuitive Surgical Inc). Once they successfully achieved performance benchmarks, surgeons were randomized to either receive a 3- to 5-minute VR simulator warm-up or read a leisure book for 10 minutes before performing similar and dissimilar (intracorporeal suturing) robotic surgery tasks. The primary outcomes compared were task time, tool path length, economy of motion, technical, and cognitive errors.   RESULTS Task time (-29.29 seconds, p혻= 0.001; 95% CI,혻-47.03 to혻-11.56), path length (-79.87 mm; p혻= 0.014; 95% CI,혻-144.48 to혻-15.25), and cognitive errors were reduced in the warm-up group compared with the control group for similar tasks. Global technical errors in intracorporeal suturing (0.32; p혻= 0.020; 95% CI, 0.06-0.59) were reduced after the dissimilar VR task. When surgeons were stratified by earlier robotic and laparoscopic clinical experience, the more experienced surgeons (n혻= 17) demonstrated significant improvements from warm-up in task time (-53.5 seconds; p혻= 0.001; 95% CI,혻-83.9 to혻-23.0) and economy of motion (0.63 mm/s; p혻= 0.007; 95% CI, 0.18-1.09), and improvement in these metrics was not statistically significantly appreciated in the less-experienced cohort (n혻= 34).   CONCLUSIONS We observed significant performance improvement and error reduction rates among surgeons of varying experience after VR warm-up for basic robotic surgery tasks. In addition, the VR warm-up reduced errors on a more complex task (robotic suturing), suggesting the generalizability of the warm-up.
BACKGROUND Fractures of the distal radius are one of the most common extremity fractures, and operation rates are increasing. Staff within our unit felt that formal teaching, particularly of new medical staff, with regards to fracture reduction and appropriate cast application could result in a reduction in operation rates.   METHODS Retrospective data was extracted from FORD (Fracture Outcome and Research Database), including: number of fractures, number of fractures undergoing ORIF, fracture configuration, patient demographics, and mechanism of injury. All patients undergoing ORIF had their radiographs assessed by two separate reviewers. Information regarding adequate fracture reduction, adequate cast application (using Gap Index), and appropriate plaster cast moulding was recorded. Formal teaching was then given to the next group of medical staff rotating through the unit, and the same data was collected prospectively for that six-month period. Exclusion criteria included bilateral injuries, and polytrauma patients.   RESULTS A total of 1623 distal radial fractures were treated in our unit over the 12-month period, with 71 undergoing ORIF in the first 6 months and 39 in the second 6 months, this was statistically significant (p혻=혻0.0009). Our study found that formal teaching and education significantly reduced the operation rate for distal radial fractures. This effect was most significant for extra-articular, dorsally angulated fractures of the distal radius.   CONCLUSION Our study proves that just 1혻h of basic training at the beginning of an attachment can have significant benefits to both the unit and, more importantly, the patients.
OBJECTIVES To evaluate whether physicians with higher academic productivity, as measured by the number of publications in Scopus and the Scopus Hirsch index (h-index), earn higher salaries.   METHODS This was a cross-sectional study. Participants were ophthalmologists, otolaryngologists, neurosurgeons, and neurologists classified as 'top earners' (>$100,000 annually) within the University of California (UC) healthcare system in 2008. Bibliometric searches on Scopus were conducted to retrieve the total number of publications and Hirsch indices (h-index), a measure of academic productivity. The association between the number of publications and h-index on physicians' total compensation was determined with multivariate regression models after controlling for the four specialties (ophthalmology, otolaryngology, neurosurgery, and neurology), the five institutions (UC San Francisco, UC Los Angeles, UC San Diego, UC Irvine, and UC Davis), and academic rank (assistant professor, associate professor, and professor).   RESULTS The UC healthcare system departments reported 433 faculty physicians among the four specialties, with 71.6% (n = 310) earning more than $100,000 in 2008 and classifying as top earners. After controlling for the specialty, institution, and ranking, there was a significant association between the number of publications on salary (P < 0.000001). Scopus number of publications and h-index were correlated (P < 0.001). Scopus h-index was of borderline significance in predicting physician salary (P = 0.12). Physicians with higher Scopus publications had higher total salaries across all four specialties. Every 10 publications were associated with a 2.40% increase in total salary after controlling for specialty, institution, rank, and chair.   CONCLUSIONS Ophthalmologists, otolaryngologists, neurosurgeons, and neurologists in the UC healthcare system who are more academically productive receive greater remuneration.
OBJECTIVE Productive communication among clinical practitioners is essential if recommendations regarding practice are to exist. The durability of vascular procedures is often influenced by factors such as lesion classification and runoff quality. It is the purpose of this article to determine how reproducible these measures are in the hands of various specialists who deal extensively with peripheral arterial disease.   METHODS The peripheral arteriograms of 100 patients undergoing percutaneous intervention were distributed to six specialists (three vascular surgeons, two interventional radiologists, and one interventional cardiologist). Each was provided with the reference document describing TASC II classification, Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) runoff score, and simplified runoff score. With no further instruction, each individual was asked to assign each angiogram a TASC II class, SVS runoff score, and a simplified runoff score. Comparisons between the scores assigned were made using kappa statistic.   RESULTS When using the simplified runoff score for grading peripheral arterial disease, there was excellent correlation among readers (k = 0.81; P = .001), even across different specialties. When using TASC II class to grade lesions, there was a greater degree of variation when compared with the simplified runoff score (k = 0.44; P < .05). Finally, there was poor correlation between readers when using the SVS runoff score (k = 0.10; P < .05) and the modified SVS runoff score (k = 0.26; P = .001).   CONCLUSIONS Descriptors of clinical disease severity are not universally reproducible. The simplified runoff score is reproducible when interpreted by multiple readers across different specialties and can be used without further modification. The TASC II classification may need minor alterations in description to obtain good correlation among readers. Before the SVS runoff score can be universally adapted, it will need to be described in much better detail or significantly modified.
The American Academy of Pediatrics provided a home for pediatric surgery when organized surgery did not recognize the specialty. They have continued to support surgical specialties in their pursuit of quality in education, training and practice. The AAP has appropriate infrastructure to support advocacy at both the federal and state levels. The fact that it does not have a PAC, and that it always puts the child first, has given it great credibility. Much of the AAP infrastructure is already used by surgeons to advocate for their patients, but still more opportunities for collaboration are available.
BACKGROUND Educating medical students in surgical subspecialty fields can be challenging, and the optimal timing and curriculum remain unknown. Despite advocacy for earlier exposure, competing core clerkship rotations often leave little time for subspecialty fields. We report our experience with a novel, short, and focused curriculum in surgical oncology for the third-year medical students.   METHODS A 2-wk (2009-2010) and a 4-wk (2010-2011) curriculum in surgical oncology were developed for the third-year students at a tertiary-referral cancer center, including formal didactics, rotation in clinical service of students' choosing (breast, gastrointestinal, endocrine, or melanoma), and case-based learning and presentation. Paired pre- and postrotation questionnaires were prospectively completed, including 20 items assessing knowledge and four items assessing experience. Grading was anonymous, and change in score was assessed by Wilcoxon signed-rank test.   RESULTS Paired questionnaires from 47 students (2-wk rotation, n = 26; 4-wk rotation, n = 21) showed a median improvement of three points (21.4%) from pre- to posttests (P < 0.001). The improvement did not differ by the length of rotation or by the specific clinical service. Nearly all (93%) reported a positive and inspiring experience. The most valuable avenue of learning was reported as the time spent with resident or fellow or attending (92%), followed by self-directed reading (62%) and didactic lectures (28%).   CONCLUSIONS A short and focused curriculum in surgical oncology, including structured didactics and clinical rotation, had positive impact for the third-year students. Given the increasing work-hour limits, it is important to note that the time spent in the clinical setting continues to be ranked as the most educationally valuable by medical students.
OBJECTIVE(S) We compared distress parameters and career satisfaction from survey results of surgeons from 14 specialties practicing in an academic versus private practice environment.   METHODS The 2008 American College of Surgeons survey evaluated demographic variables, practice characteristics, career satisfaction, and distress parameters using validated instruments.   RESULTS The practice setting (academic vs. private practice) was independently associated with burnout in a multivariate (MV) analysis (odds ratio [OR] 1.172, P = 0.02). Academic surgeons were less likely to experience burnout compared to those in private practice (37.7% vs. 43.1%), less likely to screen positive for depression (27.6% vs. 33%) or to have suicide ideation (4.7% vs. 7.4%; all P < 0.0001). They were also more likely to have career satisfaction (77.4% of academic surgeons would become a surgeon again vs. 64.9% for those in private practice; P < 0.0001)) and to recommend a medical career to their children (61.3% vs. 43.7%, P < 0.0001). For academic surgeons, the most significant positive associations with burnout were: (1) trauma surgery (OR 1.513, P = 0.0059), (2) nights on call (OR 1.062, P = 0.0123), and (3) hours worked (OR 1.019, P < 0.0001), whereas the negative associations were: (1) having older children (>22 years; OR 0.529, P < 0.0001), (2) pediatric surgery (OR 0.583, P = 0.0053), (3) cardiothoracic surgery (OR 0.626, P = 0.0117), and (4) being male (OR 0.787, P = 0.0491). In a private practice setting, the most significant positive associations with burnout were: (1) urologic surgery (OR 1.497, P = 0.0086), (2) having 31% to 50% time for nonclinical activities (OR 1.404, P = 0.0409), (3) incentive based pay (OR 1.344, P < 0.0001), (4) nights on call (OR 1.045, P = 0.0029), and (5) hours worked (OR 1.015, P < 0.0001), whereas the negative associations were: (1) older children (OR 0.677, P = 0.0001), (2) physician spouse (OR 0.753, P = 0.0093), and (3) older age (OR 0.989, P = 0.0158). The independent factors relating to career satisfaction for surgeons in private practice and academic practice were also different.   CONCLUSIONS Factors associated with burnout were distinct for academic and private practice surgeons. Distress parameters were lower and career satisfaction higher for academic surgeons.
OBJECTIVES Health funders face the challenge of determining the appropriate level of surgeon fees in fee-for-service schemes.혻 A resource-based relative value scale (RBRVS) attempts to identify the fees that would exist in a competitive market.혻 Private insurance providers in New Zealand do not use a RBRVS but rather rely on a market.혻 We explore the extent to which private surgeon fees in New Zealand are consistent with fees that would be generated by a RBRVS.   METHODS Data on 155,290 surgical procedures from 2004-06 were provided by New Zealand's largest private health insurer.혻 314 procedure codes were matched to the Australian Ministry of Health and Ageing's RBRVS. A random effects model determined predicted surgeon reimbursements based on the RBRVS, the location and the year. Procedure volume and specialty were explored as potential sources of deviations.   RESULTS The RBRVS, location and year explain 79% of the variation in surgeon fees. After accounting for the RBRVS, location and year, no statistical differences were found between five out of the seven specialties, but higher volume procedures were associated with lower fees. There was some evidence that the model explained less variation in lower volume procedures.   CONCLUSIONS Surgical fees were generally consistent with those predicted by the RBRVS. However, the fees for high volume procedures were relatively lower than predicted while the fees for low volume procedures appeared more variable. The findings are consistent with the hypothesis that market forces lowered prices for procedures with higher volumes. This has implications for how health funders might determine private surgical fees, especially in mixed public-private systems.
BACKGROUND The increasing number of children with evolving congenital heart diseases demands greater preparation of professionals and institutions that handle them.   OBJECTIVE To describe the profile of patients aged over 16 years with congenital heart disease, who have undergone surgery, and analyze the risk factors that predict hospital mortality.   METHOD One thousand five hundred twenty patients (mean age 27 짹 13 years) were operated between January 1986 and December 2010. We performed a descriptive analysis of the epidemiological profile of the study population and analyzed risk factors for hospital mortality, considering the complexity score, the year in which surgery was performed, the procedure performed or not performed by the pediatric surgeon and reoperation.   RESULTS There was a significant increase in the number of cases from the year 2000. The average complexity score was 5.4 and the septal defects represented 45% of cases. Overall mortality was 7.7% and most procedures (973 or 61.9%) with greater complexity were performed by pediatric surgeons. Complexity (OR 1.5), reoperation (OR 2.17) and pediatric surgeon (OR 0.28) were independent risk factors influencing mortality. Multivariate analysis showed that the year in which the surgery was performed (OR 1.03), the complexity (OR 1.44) and the pediatric surgeon (OR 0.28) influenced the result.   CONCLUSION There is an increasing number of patients aged 16 years which, despite the large number of simple cases, the most complex ones were referred to pediatric surgeons, who had lower mortality, especially in recent years.
OBJECTIVE To determine whether residency program directors (PDs) of general surgery and surgical subspecialties review social networking (SN) websites during resident selection.   DESIGN A 16-question survey was distributed via e-mail (Survey Monkey, Palo Alto, California) to 641 PDs of general surgery and surgical subspecialty residency programs accredited by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).   SETTING Institutions with ACGME-accredited general surgery and surgical subspecialty residency programs.   PARTICIPANTS PDs of ACGME-accredited general surgery and surgical subspecialty residency programs.   RESULTS Two hundred fifty (39%) PDs completed the survey. Seventeen percent (n = 43) of respondents reported visiting SN websites to gain more information about an applicant during the selection process, leading 14 PDs (33.3%) to rank an applicant lower after a review of their SN profile. PDs who use SN websites currently are likely to continue (69%), whereas those who do not use SN currently might do so in the future (yes 5.4%, undecided 44.6%).   CONCLUSIONS Online profiles displayed on SN websites provide surgery PDs with an additional avenue with which to evaluate highly competitive residency applicants. Applicants should be aware of the expansion of social media into the professional arena and the increasing use of these tools by PDs. SN profiles should reflect the professional standards to which physicians are held while highlighting an applicant's strengths and academic achievements.
BACKGROUND Often, minor complications are not reported in morbidity and mortality (M&M) conference because they are considered insignificant to patient outcome. As part of an effort to improve the quality of the M&M conference, we sought to integrate a specific, focused intervention to improve the reporting of minor complications and to evaluate the perception of its educational value.   MATERIALS AND METHODS To provide evidence-based training in recognizing, treating, and preventing minor complications, a presentation strategy was created. Surgical faculty identified 20 complications as minor complications. Each month, a junior resident was assigned to give a 10-minute presentation, assessing 1 of the 20 minor complications in depth during the M&M conference. To assess the impact of the intervention, we surveyed residents and faculty about the educational value of M&M conferences before and after implementation.   RESULTS Before introducing minor complication presentations into the M&M conference, only 58% of respondents indicated that minor complications should be reported at the conference. After the changes were implemented in minor complication reporting, 95% of respondents said that minor complications should be reported (p < 0.01). Eighty-nine percent of respondents found the minor complication presentations to be educationally beneficial. In addition, postsurvey respondents were also more likely than presurvey respondents to identify that a purpose of an M&M conference was to improve patient care (29% vs 71%, p < 0.05).   CONCLUSIONS A formal, evidence-based presentation of minor complications can increase both the faculty and residents' perception of the importance of reporting minor complications at an M&M conference. Focused minor complication reporting should be incorporated into M&M curriculum.
PURPOSE The purpose of the study was to develop a model that predicts an individual applicant's probability of successful placement into a surgical subspecialty fellowship program.   METHODS Candidates who applied to surgical fellowships during a 3-year period were identified in a set of databases that included the electronic application materials.   RESULTS Of the 1281 applicants who were available for analysis, 951 applicants (74%) successfully placed into a colon and rectal surgery, thoracic surgery, vascular surgery, or pediatric surgery fellowship. The optimal final prediction model, which was based on a logistic regression, included 14 variables. This model, with a c statistic of 0.74, allowed for the determination of a useful estimate of the probability of placement for an individual candidate.   CONCLUSIONS Of the factors that are available at the time of fellowship application, 14 were used to predict accurately the proportion of applicants who will successfully gain a fellowship position.
PURPOSE The authors aimed to trial an alternative interviewing strategy by inviting residency candidates to our surgical anatomy laboratory. Interviews were coincident with surgical dissection. The authors hypothesized that residency candidates hoping to match into a surgical subspecialty might enjoy this unconventional interviewing strategy, which would mimic an operating room experience.   METHODS On scheduled residency interview dates, formal, unstructured interviews were held with half of the neurosurgical faculty, and unstructured surgical skills laboratory-based interviews were held with the other half of the neurosurgical faculty. Interviews in the skills laboratory featured cases and corresponding surgical dissection guided by faculty. After the interview, the residency candidates were encouraged to complete an optional survey about their interview process. The survey results were pooled for analysis.   RESULTS Of 28 interviewed, 19 individuals responded to the survey. The survey respondents had favorable reviews of the all aspects of the interview process. When asked to report the most enjoyable part of the interview, all respondents listed the surgical skills laboratory. The average respondent scores for importance of the surgical skills laboratory interview (9.5 짹 1.1) compared with conventional interview with faculty (9.2 짹 1.0) or residents (9.1 짹 1.0) was not significantly different (p = 0.50, analysis of variance).   CONCLUSIONS The surgical skills laboratory interviews were reviewed favorably by the survey respondents. Nearly all respondents listed the surgical skills interview as the most enjoyable part of the interview experience. The authors advocate this residency interview strategy for surgical subspecialty residencies.
The acute abdomen is a very serious yet common condition of patients presenting in the emergency department. The clinical symptoms of patients with acute abdomen are often unspecific. The responsibility of the surgeon in charge is to differentiate acute life-threatening from less serious conditions with a high level of diagnostic accuracy in a minimal period of time. Imaging represents a cornerstone in the diagnostic work-up of patients with acute abdomen. Computed tomography (CT) is increasingly utilised to detect emergency conditions in patients with acute abdomen. In this review article we aim to elaborate the role of CT in the imaging strategy for acute abdomen in comparison to conventional radiography, ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging. In addition, relevant factors pertaining for the indication of CT such as exposure to ionising radiation and safety of iodinated contrast media are discussed.
BACKGROUND Rowan Nicks was a cardiothoracic surgeon in Sydney. He endowed the Rowan Nicks Scholarship Programme of the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons, which was initiated in 1991 to provide opportunities for clinicians from developing countries so that they return to their countries as leaders and teachers. This paper's objective was to evaluate the outcomes and impact of the scholarship on individuals and their communities.   METHODS A survey was undertaken of 34 eligible scholars of whom 29 participated. It was directed at whether objectives were achieved in technical skills, patient management and in competency in research and leadership.   RESULTS Ninety-eight per cent of scholars returned to work in their home country. Twenty-eight of 29 were working in their chosen specialty and had returned to their former positions. The clinical/operative skills obtained were regarded as useful by 86%, and 22/29 (76%) scholars reported they had gained worthwhile leadership and administrative skills. Improved clinical outcomes for patients were achieved as evidenced by reduced mortality and less disability. There was also a positive impact on health systems. The best documented of these were improved trauma management, development of paediatric surgery in rural Bangladesh, a new cardiac unit in Myanmar, organ transplantation and better injury outcomes in Papua New Guinea.   CONCLUSION The programme has resulted in potential and actual leaders returning to their home countries where they positively impacted on health and surgical services. This has resulted in a reduced burden of surgical disease in the scholars' countries as measured by less death, disability and deformity.
BACKGROUND In health care, it is widely known that evidence-based medicine (EBM) has a significant impact on clinical practice, and opinion leaders can enhance the clinician's application of EBM in various disciplines. In this article, we examine the existence and impact of opinion leaders in craniofacial surgery as well as barriers to evidence-based practice.   METHODS We compiled the answers of an Internet questionnaire, which was sent to 102 craniofacial surgeons.   RESULTS Our results demonstrate that opinion leaders most definitely can be identified in craniofacial surgery. They are tightly connected to their field's social network and promote EBM. In this survey, 44% of craniofacial surgeons reported that their greatest obstacle to clinical decision making in the management of nonsyndromic synostosis was lack of surgical consensus. In addition, craniofacial surgeons stated that EBM and opinion leaders are the most influential factors that caused them to change their management of craniosynostosis.   CONCLUSIONS We expect that the use of opinion leaders can further enhance the uptake of EBM in craniofacial surgery.
BACKGROUND Subspecialisation within general surgery has today reached further than ever. However, on-call time, an unchanged need for broad surgical skills are required to meet the demands of acute surgical disease and trauma. The introduction of a new subspecialty in North America that deals solely with acute care surgery and trauma is an attempt to offer properly trained surgeons also during on-call time. To find out whether such a subspecialty could be helpful in Sweden we analyzed our workload for emergency surgery and trauma.   METHODS Link철ping University Hospital serves a population of 257 000. Data from 2010 for all patients, diagnoses, times and types of operations, surgeons involved, duration of stay, types of injury and deaths regarding emergency procedures were extracted from a prospectively-collected database and analyzed.   RESULTS There were 2362 admissions, 1559 emergency interventions; 835 were mainly abdominal operations, and 724 diagnostic or therapeutic endoscopies. Of the 1559 emergency interventions, 641 (41.1%) were made outside office hours, and of 453 minor or intermediate procedures (including appendicectomy, cholecystectomy, or proctological procedures) 276 (60.9%) were done during the evenings or at night. Two hundred and fifty-four patients were admitted with trauma and 29 (11.4%) required operation, of whom general surgeons operated on eight (3.1%). Thirteen consultants and 11 senior registrars were involved in 138 bowel resections and 164 cholecystectomies chosen as index operations for standard emergency surgery. The median (range) number of such operations done by each consultant was 6 (3-17) and 6 (1-22). Corresponding figures for senior registrars were 7 (0-11) and 8 (1-39).   CONCLUSION There was an uneven distribution of exposure to acute surgical problems and trauma among general surgeons. Some were exposed to only a few standard emergency interventions and most surgeons did not operate on a single patient with trauma. Further centralization of trauma care, long-term positions at units for emergency surgery and trauma, and subspecialisation in the fields of emergency surgery and trauma, might be options to solve problems of low volumes.
BACKGROUND The World Health Organization has a standardized tool to assess surgical capacity in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), but it is often resource- and time-intensive. There currently exists no simple, evidence-based measure of surgical capacity in these settings. The proportion of cesarean deliveries in regard to the total operations (C/O ratio) has been suggested as a way to assess quickly the capacity for emergency and essential surgery in LMICs. This ratio has been estimated to be between 23.3 and 41.5 % in LMICs, but the tool's utility has not been replicated.   METHODS We reviewed operative logbooks for the Partners In Health/Zanmi Lasante hospital in Cange, Haiti. We recorded data on all consecutive surgical patients from July 2008 to 2010 and calculated the C/O ratio by dividing the number of cesarean deliveries by the total number of operations performed. We also analyzed surgical data by surgeon nationality to provide additional information about local surgical capacity.   RESULTS A total of 3,641 operations were performed between 2008 and 2010. The C/O ratio decreased significantly between 2008-2009 and 2009-2010 (13.4 vs. 10.7 %, p = 0.001) as the surgical volume and resources increased. Nationality analysis demonstrated that Haitian surgeons were able to provide a spectrum of general and specialist surgical care.   CONCLUSIONS In its inherent relation to essential surgical procedures and to the overall rate of cesarean deliveries in the region, the C/O ratio can provide an accessible assessment of regional surgical resources. In Haiti, the change in the C/O ratio demonstrated a relative increase in surgical capacity from 2008 to 2010. An additional analysis of surgeon nationality ensured that C/O ratio estimates more accurately reflect local practitioner activity, but deficiencies in the regional capacity to address the local burden of surgical disease may still exist.
OBJECTIVE To determine the rates and predictors of remediation and attrition among general surgery residents.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Eleven-year retrospective analysis of 348 categorical general surgery residents at 6 West Coast programs.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Rates and predictors of remediation and attrition.   RESULTS Three hundred forty-eight categorical general surgery residents were included. One hundred seven residents (31%) required remediation, of which 27 were remediated more than once. Fifty-five residents (15.8%) left their programs, although only 2 were owing to failed remediation. Remediation was not a predictor of attrition (20% attrition for those remediated vs 15% who were not [P = .40]). Remediation was most frequently initiated owing to a deficiency in medical knowledge (74%). Remediation consisted of monthly meetings with faculty (79%), reading assignments (72%), required conferences (27%), therapy (12%), and repeating a clinical year (6.5%). On univariate analysis, predictors of remediation included receiving honors in the third-year surgery clerkship, United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) step 1 and/or step 2, and American Board of Surgery In-Training Examination scores at postgraduate years 1 through 4. On multivariable regression analysis, remediation was associated with receiving honors in surgery (odds ratio, 1.9; P = .01) and USMLE step 1 score (odds ratio, 0.9; P = .02). On univariate analysis, the only predictor of attrition was the American Board of Surgery In-Training Examination score at the postgraduate year 3 level (P = .04).   CONCLUSIONS Almost one third of categorical general surgery residents required remediation during residency, which was most often owing to medical knowledge deficits. Lower USMLE step 1 scores were predictors of the need for remediation. Most remediated residents successfully completed the program. Given the high rates of remediation and the increased educational burden on clinical faculty, medical schools need to focus on better preparing students to enter surgical residency.
The last few years have seen major changes in the delivery of vascular services in the UK. An increasingly elderly population with greater expectations from their medical services has challenged established methods. It also became apparent that outcomes for low volume, high risk index vascular interventions such as abdominal aortic aneurysm repair were poor in the UK compared to the rest of Europe. Other ongoing challenges were the introduction of a national aortic aneurysm screening programme and the development of vascular surgery as a separate speciality. This article details the approach taken to modernise vascular services in the UK, using a quality framework agreed by vascular specialists, which drove the structural change to move vascular interventions into fewer, higher volume centres. The introduction of modern networks is designed to maintain services in surrounding hospitals without on site vascular inpatient services. The initial effects of this service remodelling are positive, with elective aortic aneurysm mortality rates falling nationally from 7.5 to 2.4 per cent.
INTRODUCTION More than any other allograft, the allotransplantation of the face has a symbolic character, which raises a large number of questions. The objective of this article is to make an analysis through a survey carried out among French surgeons.   METHODS A file of 909 e-mail addresses of surgeons was created so as to send out a questionnaire regarding 10 ethical issues.   RESULTS Beyond the technical prowess, the surgeons ethical reflection initially focused on the notion of consent to donation and care. They attached equal importance to all ethical questions. They spontaneously raised the issue of over-mediatization of these first transplants and the place of the transplant surgeons and their patients in the medical information.   CONCLUSION Over two thirds of the surgeons attached importance to ethical issues regarding the donor and recipient of a facial allograft. Some of the principal questions facing facial transplantation is of an ethical nature as it is an unprecedented procedure that is challenged by the axiom to first do no harm and the need of modern medicine to limit risk to as close to zero as possible. For the non-specialist, accepting psychologically the face of another individual appears to be a real issue. Contrary to that, the main demand expressed by the facial transplant recipients appears to be related to facial functions rather than appearance.
OBJECTIVE The attractiveness of pediatric surgery (PS) as a specialty includes its primary role in the care of multisystemic disease. We were interested in identifying changes in operative case quality and quantity when comparing PS residents to PS practitioners.   METHODS The 2006 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education PS resident current procedural terminology (CPT) code database (26,077 resident cases) was merged with the 2006 Kids' Inpatient Database of International Classification of Diseases (ICD)-9 procedure codes (230,504 practitioner cases) and categorized by case type and volumes according to a resident CPT reference file. Cases were categorized into 84 procedure types. A recent estimate of 691 practicing pediatric surgeons was used as denominator to calculate case volume per surgeon. Our analysis focused on the PS index cases and we compared PS residents to subspecialty board certified general pediatric surgeons in practice. We excluded cases that may be performed by general surgeons without PS training.   RESULTS Our data indicate that, on average, 501 cases are performed annually by each PS resident. We identified significant differences in case volume per surgeon between training and practice for most PS index cases.CONCLUSIONS The PS index case quantity declined significantly from training to practice. If a volume to outcome relationship applies to these complex and infrequent PS cases, then to sustain and improve clinical quality post-training will require a new paradigm of continued learning. Additionally, a relook at the optimal manpower and more focused regionalization is warranted.
The benefits of interdisciplinary approaches in patient care, research and education are quite obvious and set the trend for more interdisciplinary structures. In order to achieve sustained success, however, there are numerous risks of interdisciplinary collaboration that have to be considered. Interdisciplinarity leads to an increasing degree of specialization and consequently to a greater experience of specialists in highly specific procedures. Nevertheless, this is accompanied by a loss of experience of those who do not perform these procedures anymore. Not least, due to the high specialization, the surgeon's profession is changing from generalist to specialist. Hence, the education of young physicians, students and researchers has to be adapted to this reality. It remains unanswered if these changes contribute to the decline in the number of applicants in surgery. In conclusion, the risks of the contradictory contexts of interdisciplinarity can be counteracted with simple principles of fair and cooperative partnership.
OBJECTIVE To evaluate the activity of visceral surgeons assigned to the Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) (role 3) in Kabul International Airport (KAIA) and identify the skills and qualifications required by these specialists.   PATIENTS AND METHODS Between July 2009 and December 2010, all the patients operated by the visceral surgeons were eligible for inclusion in this study. They were International Security and Assistance Force (ISAF), Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) soldiers, non-afghan civilians personnel and local nationals (LNs). They sustained war-related injuries, non-war related trauma emergencies, non-trauma related emergencies or had elective surgical care. The mechanisms and types of injuries, the affected organs and the surgical procedures were collected.   RESULTS Over the period of study, the visceral surgeons treated 261 over 971 patients (26.9%) achieving a total of 438 surgical procedures. Thirty one percent of these procedures were war-related, 26% non-war related, 24.2% non-trauma related emergencies and 18.1% elective surgery. Non-trauma related emergencies and elective surgery required the same skills as in civilian practice. War-related injuries and non-war related trauma emergencies were more challenging. Combined injuries represented 56% of the cases requiring damage control resuscitation procedures and/or treatment of severe burns. Life-threatening thoracic or vascular injuries (30%) required life-saving emergency surgical procedures.   CONCLUSION A visceral surgeon in a role 3 MTF should master a wide range of skills and expertise to be able to deal with many complex situations, in particular life-threatening situations such as thoracic and vascular wounds. A comprehensive surgical training programme for surgeons in abroad deployment (Advance Course for Deployment Surgery - CACHIRMEX) has been designed and settled up in 2007 to provide these necessary skills. The feedback obtained from each previous deployment demonstrates that the advanced course for deployment surgery provides visceral surgeons the necessary skills required to deliver surgical healthcare in a role 3 MTF. However, a regular assessment of this programme is mandatory to ensure that this training stays appropriate and contributes to better outcomes and a decreased mortality rate.
BACKGROUND Attracting the best medical graduates to trauma-related specialties is pivotal for excellent injury management in future, especially with the rising global incidence of injuries. We sought to explore the interest of Nigerian medical students and interns in Orthopaedics, Cardiothoracic, Neurological, Burns and Plastic and General Surgery specialties.   METHODS A cross-sectional study was conducted using a self-administered questionnaire to assess interest in selected trauma-related specialties among 177 senior medical students and interns at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital and Lagos University Teaching Hospital in Lagos, Nigeria. Stratified random sampling method was employed and Chi-square test was performed in data analysis using SPSS v15.0 statistical package.   RESULTS Majority (80%) showed interest in post-graduate specialization. Surgery topped the list of specialties chosen by participants while 55% were likely to choose one of the selected trauma-related specialties. Exposure to positive role models, male gender and being single were significantly associated with interest in trauma-related future career. Opportunities for career fulfilment, carrying out difficult procedures, research and discovery, intellectual challenges during practice, use of modern technology, financial remuneration of specialists, patient outcomes and previous theatre experience had significant positive influence on participants who had strong interest in trauma-related specialty. Lifestyle issues like workload, call schedules, stress and duration of residency, training conditions and facilities and time commitment to practice had negative influence on choice of specialty.   CONCLUSION Interest of medical students and interns in trauma-related specialties may be sustained and enhanced by practicing surgeons through mentoring and by serving as role models. Training programs in surgery should be revisited and made less stressful while lifestyle issues need to be made more favourable.
In the past decade surgical training in the United Kingdom (UK) has seen radical overhaul with the introduction of formal training curricula, competency based assessment, and a new Core Surgical Training programme. Despite this, and in common with many other countries, numerous threats remain to sustaining high-quality surgical training and education in the modern working environment. These include service delivery pressures and the reduction in working hours. There are numerous areas for potential improvement and dissemination of best training practice, from incentivising training within the National Health Service (NHS) through top-down government initiatives, to individualised information and feedback for trainees at the front-line. This document sets out the current structure of surgical training in the UK, and describes the contribution to the current debate by the Association of Surgeons in Training. Highlighting areas for improvement at national, regional, local and individual levels, the Association proposes 34 action points to enhance surgical training and education. Adoption of these will ensure future practice continues to improve on, and learn from, the longstanding history of training provided under the guidance of the Royal Surgical Colleges.
AIMS Internationally, surgical training is facing the challenge of balancing research and clinical experience in the context of reduced working hours. This study aimed to investigate trainees and trainers' views on surgeons participating in full-time research during surgical training.   METHODS An anonymous voluntary survey was conducted of surgical trainers and trainees in two training systems. To examine surgeons' views across two different training schemes, surgeons were surveyed in Ireland (Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland) and in a Canadian centre (University of Toronto) between January 2009 and September 2010 (n = 397 respondents).   RESULTS The majority of respondents felt that time spent in research by trainees was important for surgery as a specialty, while 65 % felt that research was important for surgical trainees (trainers 79 %, trainees 60 %, p = 0.001). A higher proportion of Canadian surgeons reported that they enjoyed their time spent in research, compared to Irish surgeons (84 vs. 66 %, p = 0.05). Financial worries and loss of clinical time were common demotivating factors. Full-time research was more popular than part-time options to obtain a post-graduate degree.   CONCLUSIONS Most agree that research remains an important component of surgical training. However, there are significant differences in opinion among surgeons in different countries on the precise role and structure of research in surgical training.
A growing body of literature in vascular surgery demonstrates disparities in the type of health care that racial/ethnic minorities receive in the United States. Numerous recommendations, including those of the Institute of Medicine, have been set forth, which identify increasing the number of minority health professionals as a key strategy to eliminating health disparities. The purpose of this study is to compare the racial/ethnic distribution of the Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) membership, the SVS leadership, vascular surgery trainees, and medical students. The results demonstrate that the racial/ethnic distribution of the SVS membership reflects a considerable lack of diversity with a paucity of diversity among the SVS leadership. An increasing rate of racial/ethnic diversity among vascular surgery trainees may indicate that the SVS will see an improvement in diversity in the future.
BACKGROUND Acute care surgery (ACS) includes trauma, surgical critical care, and emergent general surgery. There is a national shortage of institutions that can provide for patients needing access to emergency surgical care. Inability to fund ACS surgeons can be a barrier. We hypothesize that an ACS service, in an appropriately staffed hospital, generates a positive contribution margin (CM).   STUDY DESIGN Fiscal data for 2009 were retrospectively reviewed at the University of Kentucky, a Level I trauma center with an ACS service. Contribution margin (ie, net revenue minus direct costs) and mean length of stay were calculated for all patients admitted to the ACS service. Inpatient data were stratified by trauma vs general surgery, emergent vs elective, and by payor mix.   RESULTS Annual CM associated with the 5 ACS faculty was $21,799,000. Trauma generated higher CM than general surgery. General surgery had a greater CM, more if emergent than if elective ($9,500 vs $5,500; p < 0.01). Self-payment was lower with emergent general surgery vs trauma (20% vs 25%; p = 0.02).   CONCLUSIONS Acute care surgery generates a positive CM. Emergent general surgery generates a greater CM than elective general surgery because of increased case mix index. These data suggest that hospital subsidization of acute care surgeons is financially feasible and might address the surgical workforce shortage and the critical problem of access to emergency surgical services.
OBJECTIVE To quantify the association between surgical team familiarity and operative time.   BACKGROUND Team familiarity in the operating room may influence outcomes irrespective of individual surgeons' experience. To date, however, quantifying the impact of teamwork on outcomes has been challenging.   METHODS We studied 754 bilateral reduction mammaplasty procedures performed by 223 teams, comprising 8 attending surgeons and 107 assisting surgeons, at a major academic hospital between 1995 and 2007. For each procedure, the operative experience of the attending and assisting surgeons and the number of mammaplasty procedures they had previously performed in collaboration were determined. The influence of these factors on operative time was quantified along with patient age, volume of breast reduction, and comorbidities, using multivariate generalized estimating equations.   RESULTS The mean operative time was 153 (SD = 38) minutes for teams with no prior collaborations, 132 (SD = 33) minutes for teams with 1 to 5 collaborations, 116 (SD = 23) minutes for teams with 6 to 10 collaborations, and 119 (SD = 27) minutes for teams with more than 10 collaborations (P = 0.0001). Operative time was independently associated with the operative experience of the attending (P = 0.02) and assisting surgeons (P = 0.03) and the number of prior collaborations between them (P < 0.001). The expected reductions in operative time over the attending surgeon's career and the assisting surgeon's training period were 59 and 22 minutes, respectively. Surgical team familiarity accounted for an additional reduction of 16 minutes after 10 prior collaborations.   CONCLUSIONS In addition to individual surgeon experience, team familiarity contributed to reductions in operative time, suggesting potential benefits to maintaining continuity of team membership over time.
OBJECTIVE To compare muscular fatigue and postural stability of surgeons before and after laparoscopic and robotic surgery.   SUBJECTS AND METHODS The design of this study is Class II. A consecutive cohort of patients presenting at an academic tertiary-care center for scheduled gynecologic surgery was used. Routine surgical care was examined with testing of surgeon fatigue and postural measures before and after the procedure. Motor fatigue was measured using a quantitative grip dynamometer, and postural stability was measured using a nondominant, single-leg stance. A subjective fatigue score was recorded following surgery.   RESULTS Primary surgeons completed testing before and after 56 surgeries. A trend toward decline in postural stability was observed more in the laparoscopy group than in the robotic group (P=.29). The fatigue index and subjective fatigue scores were not significantly different.   CONCLUSIONS Similar changes in postural stability and muscular strength were observed following laparoscopic and robotic surgery. The optimal measurement tool to capture surgical fatigue remains elusive. Fatigue differences may have been more pronounced if surgical procedure degree of difficulty had been more consistent between groups.
Evidence-based medicine mandates that the best available evidence should be used to inform clinical decision making. Though there is a paucity of high level evidence within paediatric surgery generally, randomised controlled trials in this age group have become more frequent recently. This article reviews the statistical basis behind effective systematic reviews and meta-analysis for the practising clinician and is based on an invited lecture to the Experimental Research Club within the BAPS/EUPSA Congress, Rome, Italy, June 2012.
AIM OF STUDY To examine changes in authorship patterns in the articles published in the Journal of Pediatric Surgery (JPS) over the last three decades (1981-2010), and to analyze why they took place.   METHODS Data for analysis were obtained from the JPS over three five-year periods (1981-1985, 1991-1995, and 2006-2010). All original papers (3740), case reports (884), and correspondence (236) were separately examined and analyzed. For investigation of percentage distribution of publications (original papers and case reports), combined groups of papers, with 1 to 3, 4 to 5, 6 to 9, and over nine authors were formed. Justified (ethical, acceptable) and unjustified (unethical, unacceptable) reasons for authorship changes were defined according to the International Ethical Guidelines. Comparisons among groups were made with Kruskal-Wallis tests, taking p<0.05 as significant.   RESULTS The number of authors of original papers and case reports increased significantly in consecutive periods (p<0.001). The same pattern was observed in letters (p<0.01). The percentage of papers with less than 3 authors significantly declined, whereas those with 4 to 5 authors did not change. Manuscripts with more than 6 authors significantly increased, and a similar pattern was seen in case reports.   CONCLUSIONS This striking increase in the number of authors per article was evident in other medical journals as well, and reflects a progressive complexity in academic work along with the need for building resumes rich in publications. It can be anticipated that this tendency will continue in the future.
BACKGROUND The present qualitative study explores surgeons' experiences and coping mechanisms with the death of their patients in the context of life-limiting illnesses.   METHODS Nine Australian surgeons participated in in-depth interviews. Thematic analysis of the interview transcriptions allowed for identification of themes and subthemes. Methodological trustworthiness and rigor were preserved at all stages of the research process.   RESULTS The essence of surgical practice, comprising participants' descriptions of their identity as surgeons, influenced their experiences and coping mechanisms when dealing with death and dying. The following subthemes were identified: distancing from patients, wanting to fix problems, doing in terms of operating on a patient, prominence of the surgeon's personal ability, and high personal responsibility for patient outcomes. Giving hope and having a mixed surgical practice were some of the coping mechanisms described by participants.   DISCUSSION Death and dying are a part of surgical practice, and surgeons face challenges as they care for dying patients. Although participants stated that they felt less affected by dealing with patients dying of life-limiting illnesses than by unexpected deaths, their descriptions of their encounters, reactions, and behaviors, as well as their use of language, suggest that these deaths have a lasting impact. Potential areas for improvement of surgical practice and approaches to teaching about death and dying in surgery are addressed. Furthermore, the results of this study suggest the need to expand research in this area.
OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS The h-index, a bibliometric indicator that objectively characterizes the impact of an author's scholarship, is an effective tool that may be considered by academic departments for decisions related to hiring and faculty advancement. Our objective was to characterize the scholarly productivity of academic surgeons from different specialties relative to otolaryngologists.   STUDY DESIGN Analysis of a bibliometric database.   METHODS The h-indices of 2,429 faculty members within surgical specialties at 20 randomly selected academic institutions were calculated using the Scopus database and were examined to determine relationship with academic rank and comparison among surgical subspecialties.   RESULTS The h-index statistically increased with academic rank. Mean h-indices were as follows: assistant professor, 4.37 (range, 2.73-6.69); associate professor, 8.70 (6.53-11.02); professor, 16.44 (13.39-20.45); and chairperson, 20.79 (14.81-27.89). Mean increase between academic rank was 5.47, with the largest increase between the levels of associate professor and professor. Further examination demonstrated statistically significant increases through all academic ranks for most, but not all, individual specialties. Urologists, general surgeons, and neurosurgeons had the highest mean h-indices.   CONCLUSIONS h-indices among the different surgical specialties vary and are potentially impacted by the number of practitioners as well as research emphasis within a field. The mean h-index of academic otolaryngologists falls in the lower values for academic surgeons. Because this metric varies among different fields, it is most relevant for comparison when examining values within a field. H-indices reliably increase with increasing academic rank through professor and offer a quantifiable and objective alternative to other metrics when evaluating faculty members for academic advancement.
BACKGROUND Fellowship posts are increasingly common and offer targeted opportunities for training and personal development. Despite international demand, there is little objective information quantifying this effect or the motivations behind undertaking such a post. The present study investigated surgical trainees' fellowship aims and intentions.   METHODS An electronic, 38-item, self-administered questionnaire survey was distributed in the United Kingdom via national and regional surgical mailing lists and websites via the Association of Surgeons in Training, Royal Surgical Colleges, and Specialty Associations.   RESULTS In all, 1,581 fully completed surveys were received, and 1,365 were included in the analysis. These represented trainees in core or higher training programs or research from all specialties and training regions: 66 % were male; the mean age was 32 years; 77.6 % intended to or had already completed a fellowship. Plastic surgery (95.2 %) and cardiothoracic (88.6 %) trainees were most likely to undertake a fellowship, with pediatrics (51.2 %), and urology (54.3 %) the least likely. Fellowship uptake increased with seniority (p < 0.01) and was positively correlated (p = 0.016, r = 0.767) with increasing belief that fellowships are necessary to the attainment of clinical competence, agreed by 73.1 %. Fellowship aims were ranked in descending order of importance as attaining competence, increasing confidence, and attaining subspecialist skills.   CONCLUSIONS Over three-quarters of trainees have or will undertake a clinical fellowship, varying with gender, specialty, and seniority. Competence, confidence, and subspecialty skills development are the main aims. The findings will influence workforce planning, and perceptions that current training does not deliver sufficient levels of competence and confidence merit further investigation.
OBJECTIVE To determine the perceived effectiveness of surgical subspecialty training programs in teaching and assessing the 6 ACGME core competencies including research.   DESIGN Cross-sectional survey.   SETTING ACGME approved training programs in pediatric urology and colorectal surgery.   PARTICIPANTS Program Directors and recent trainees (2007-2009).   RESULTS A total of 39 program directors (60%) and 57 trainees (64%) responded. Both program directors and recent trainees reported a higher degree of training and mentorship (75%) in patient care and medical knowledge than the other core competencies (p<0.0001). Practice based learning and improvement, interpersonal and communication, and professionalism training were perceived effective to a lesser degree. Specifically, in the areas of teaching residents and medical students and team building, program directors, compared with recent trainees, perceived training to be more effective, (p = 0.004, p = 0.04). Responses to questions assessing training in systems based practice ubiquitously identified a lack of training, particularly in financial matters of running a practice. Although effective training in research was perceived as lacking by recent trainees, 81% reported mentorship in this area. According to program directors and recent trainees, the most effective method of teaching was faculty supervision and feedback. Only 50% or less of the recent trainees reported mentorship in career planning, work-life balance, and job satisfaction.   CONCLUSIONS Not all 6 core competencies and research are effectively being taught in surgery subspecialty training programs and mentorship in areas outside of patient care and research is lacking. Emphasis should be placed on faculty supervision and feedback when designing methods to better incorporate all 6 core competencies, research, and mentorship.
BACKGROUND PhD and EdD educators in departments of surgery have and are increasingly becoming valuable colleagues. Professional educators typically assist chairpersons and program directors by positively impacting the education, research, and service missions.   OBJECTIVE The purpose of this article is 3-fold: (1) to identify ways of finding prospective PhD/EdD educators, (2) to recognize ways to work with educators in a complimentary way so the educator and directors mutually benefit, and (3) to identify various ways departments and programs can benefit from employing a professional educator.
INTRODUCTION Studies involving the formal assessment of surgical skills have often reported inferior abilities among left-handed surgical trainees (LHT). Most surgical training curricula and assessment methods, however, are inherently geared toward right-handed trainees (RHT); potentially placing LHT at both a training and assessment disadvantage. We evaluated the effect of a hand dominance-based curriculum for acquisition of basic suturing and knot tying skills among medical students.   METHODS After Institutional Review Board approval, first- and second-year medical students from the University of California, Irvine School of Medicine were recruited to participate in a basic suturing and knot tying skills course. Consenting students were randomized to either a left-handed curriculum or a right-handed curriculum consisting of (1) a 30-minute introductory video and (2) a 2-hour instructor-led, hands-on training session on basic suturing and knot tying. All instructional methods, instruments, and instructors were exclusively right-handed or left-handed for the right-handed curriculum or left-handed curriculum, respectively. Students were assessed on the performance of 2 suturing tasks, continuous running suturing and instrument knot tying, and performance assessments were conducted both immediately and 2 weeks posttraining.   RESULTS A total of 19 students completed the training course and both assessments (8 LHT, 11 RHT). Students randomized to a curriculum 'concordant' with their hand dominance performed significantly better than those randomized to a 'discordant' curriculum on both tasks (p < 0.01). This difference was found at both immediate and 2 weeks posttraining assessments. Within concordant and discordant groups, there were no significant differences between LHT and RHT.   CONCLUSIONS This preliminary study demonstrates that medical students, both LHT and RHT, immersed in a training environment that is discordant with their hand dominance might have inferior acquisition of basic suturing and knot tying skills.
OBJECTIVE To evaluate the time associated with routine cholangiography in a residency teaching program.   DESIGN We retrospectively reviewed all patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy with intraoperative cholangiography by a single surgeon from April 2010 to September 2011. Cholangiogram time, demographic, and operative information was recorded, and factors associated with increased cholangiogram times were compared using Fisher's exact test, Kruskal-Wallis test, and linear regression; a p value <0.05 was considered significant.   SETTING Academic-affiliated community-based surgical residency program.   PARTICIPANTS 10 surgical residents, PGY 1-5.   RESULTS Laparoscopic cholecystectomy with intraoperative cholangiography was performed in 54 patients. The average patient age was 43 years; 69% were Caucasian and 74% were female. Cholangiography was successful in 96% of patients. The average time for cholangiograms performed by residents was 11 minutes (range, 6-22 minutes) and average operating room time was 68 minutes (range, 32-103 minutes). The average percentage of case time for cholangiography was 17% (range, 9%-63%). Minor technical complications related to cholangiograms occurred in 33% of cases, with the most common being difficulty with clipping the catheter (20%). There was no significant difference in completion rate or cholangiogram time based on resident level of experience (p > 0.05).   CONCLUSIONS Intraoperative cholangiogram can be safely performed by residents at every level during laparoscopic cholecystectomy without adding significant time to the operation.
OBJECTIVE This study sought to evaluate the efficacy of a multisensory teaching approach in imparting the necessary knowledge, technical skills, and confidence to perform a cricothyrotomy to a cohort of fourth-year medical students.   METHODS One hundred twenty students were recruited into the study. Subjects commenced by viewing an upper airway obstruction vodcast. Students subsequently observed an expert demonstration of cricothyrotomy on human cadavers. Following this, students were able to practice on cadaveric simulators guided by experts. The students' confidence was assessed with pre- and post-session confidence-level questionnaires. Thirty randomly selected students were then assessed with a post-session objective skill assessment test. Finally, a multiple choice examination was administered to test knowledge.   RESULTS Ninety-five percent of student subjects achieved a score of at least 80% on the knowledge examination. All sampled students were considered competent to perform cricothyrotomy as judged by 2independent expert observers using the objective skill assessment test instrument. There was a statistically significant improvement between the pre- and post-CLQ scores (p<0.001). In keeping with current education theories on multisensory learning, qualitative feedback suggested a student preference for this teaching approach.   CONCLUSION This study provides further evidence that a multisensory teaching intervention effectively improves the knowledge, skill, and confidence of fourth-year medical students in performing cricothyrotomy.
INTRODUCTION The training of junior medical officers on surgical night shifts is difficult. We aimed to evaluate the training and support provided to these junior doctors during the course of their night rotations across the state of South Australia in 2011.   METHOD Standardised questionnaires were anonymously completed aimed at assessing the strengths and weaknesses of training provided to surgical night residents. Results were analysed using a host of predictors and outcomes to assess for the significance of responses across the state and between institutions.   RESULTS Twenty eight of the thirty two residents (87.5%) who completed surgical night rotations in South Australia in 2011 responded. Based on a visual analogue scale (0 to 10) residents described their level of job satisfaction ranging between 3 to 9, mean 6.5 and median 7.5. Seventeen (53.57%) experienced bullying at some time during their night rotation. A quarter of the residents reported the frequency of bullying as being 'occasional'. We found that twenty three (82.14%) of the respondents experienced some reluctance in calling senior staff. This correlated with a large number of residents (twenty- 71.43%) who felt their calls were at times unwelcome. The majority of the night residents felt that their exposure to teaching was inadequate (eighteen -64.29%). Seventeen of the residents (60.71%) reported that their exposure was never, very rare or rare.   DISCUSSION Several concerning issues were highlighted by our study. The most significant of these were: perceived patient compromise from a reluctance to call senior staff, the presence of workplace bullying and a paucity of teaching. A number of areas for improvement have been suggested which aim to provide RMOs with greater access to teaching, support and orientation.
INTRODUCTION Changes in medical practice have promoted a culture of standardized care. Care pathways have been proven to raise the quality of clinical care. Their effect as an educational tool has not been evaluated to date.   AIMS To examine the educational role of care pathways in elective surgical admissions during surgical internship and the effect of their introduction on interns' confidence in performing tasks.   METHODS A questionnaire survey was filled in by interns to determine their confidence in performing different tasks during elective surgical admission and postoperative care. Care pathways were then formulated for the commonest procedures within the Department of Colorectal Surgery. The same interns then repeated the same questionnaire after they were exposed to the care pathways.   RESULTS Thirty interns participated in the study with a 100% response rate. There was statistically significant improvement in tasks performed confidently in 20 out of 21 areas surveyed after the introduction of the care pathways. The percentage of tasks performed with no confidence decreased from 25% to 1% (p<0.001).   CONCLUSION Care pathways are an effective method to improve the efficiency and confidence of interns in different aspects of surgical care, thereby improving patient safety. They also function as a valuable educational tool to aid interns in the management of patients with complex surgical issues.
BACKGROUND Self-assessment is important to learning but few studies have utilized video self-assessment of basic surgical skills. We compared a video self-assessment of suturing and knot tying skills by novice trainees to the assessment by a senior attending surgeon.   METHODS Sixteen senior medical students and 7 beginner surgical interns were video-recorded while performing five suturing and knot tying tasks. All videos were analyzed using an objective structured assessment of technical skills (OSATS) metrics (1-5 scale; 1 = novice, 5 = expert). Video self-assessment was carried out within 4 weeks of an instructional session and subsequently by one senior surgery instructor (blinded to the individual). Both a Global score and total combined OSATS scores were analyzed. Total possible OSATS scores were: interrupted suture-30, subcuticular closure-30, one and two-handed knot tying-25 each, tying in a restricted space 20; maximum combined score-130 points). Confidence levels in performing the tasks pre-test and the value of video self-assessment were rated on a 1-5 Likert scale (1 = low and 5 = high). Data are mean짹SD and statistical significance was evaluated using Friedman's test.   RESULTS Self-assessment scoring was significantly higher than the assessment by a senior instructor for three tasks by global score and all five tasks by combined OSATS score (self-assessment 71.8짹16.7 vs attending assessment 56.7짹11.0, p = 0.007). Mean self-assessment Global scores ranged from 2.5 to 2.8 for all tasks performed compared to 1.8-2.3 for attending surgeon assessment (p<0.05). Confidence levels demonstrated no correlation to performance speed or proficiency. The video self-assessment was rated as a highly valuable (mean 4.3짹0.8) component to skills training.   CONCLUSIONS Novice trainees over-estimate their basic technical skills performance compared to the assessment by a senior surgeon. Video self-assessment may be a valuable addition to a pre-residency and surgical internship preparatory curriculum in basic suturing and knot tying.
BACKGROUND Although cultural competency is not a new concept in healthcare, it has only recently been formally embraced as important in the field of surgery. All physicians, including and especially surgeons, must acknowledge the potential influence of culture in order to provide effective and equitable care for patients of all backgrounds. The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) recognizes cultural competency as a component of 'patient care,' 'professionalism,' and 'interpersonal and communication skills.'   METHODS A systematic literature search was conducted using the MEDLINE, EBSCOhost, Web of Science, and Google Scholar databases. All publications focusing on surgical residents and the assessment of patient care, professionalism, interpersonal and communication skills, or specifically cultural competency and/or were considered. This initial search resulted in 12 articles. To further refine the review, publications discussing curricula in residencies other than surgery, the assessment of technical, or clinical skills and/or without any explicit focus on cultural competency were excluded.   RESULTS Based on the specified inclusion and exclusion criteria, 5 articles were selected. These studies utilized various methods to improve surgical residents' cultural competency, including lectures, Objective Structural Clinical Examinations (OSCE), and written exercises and evaluations.   CONCLUSIONS A number of surgical residency programs have made promising strides in training culturally competent surgeons. Ultimately, in order to maximize our collective efforts to improve the quality of health care, the development of cultural competency curricula must be made a priority and such training should be a requirement for all trainees in surgical residency programs.
PURPOSE The Global Paediatric Surgery Network (GPSN) website was launched in May 2010, with the following goals: to serve as a clearing house for pediatric surgery volunteer work performed worldwide, to provide online resources for surgeons working in areas of limited medical resources, and to provide practical and educational information for surgeons who wish to volunteer. The purpose of this study was to assess use of the website over the first year since its launch (May 6, 2010-May 5, 2011).   METHODS The GPSN website was examined for number of pages, number of listings in Past Work, Present Work, and Help Needed categories, as well as number of volunteers available. The online tool Google Analytics was used to assess parameters that measure use of the website, such as number of visits, number of page views, number of visitors, time on the website, and geographic origin of visitors.   RESULTS The GPSN website consists of 30 pages. There are 9 listings in Past Work, 23 listings in Present Work, and 13 listings in Help Needed categories. 118 people have registered as willing to volunteer, and 96 have indicated that they are able to work in times of a natural disaster. There were 8437 visits to the website, with 28 916 page views by 5170 visitors from 145 countries, with an average number of page views of 3.43 and an average time on the website of 4:05 min. The most visited pages were the homepage, the meetings page, and the pediatric surgery organizations page. 4 websites of pediatric surgery organizations have links to the GPSN website.   CONCLUSIONS Based on early website use, we conclude that there is an interest in the GPSN. We speculate that participation in the GPSN will continue to grow, but that there is a continued need to promote the website in the global pediatric surgery community.
BACKGROUND A significant increase in industry support of professional medical associations coupled with data suggesting that gifts from industry have significant clinical influence have prompted calls from the Institute of Medicine and physician leaders to identify and manage conflicts of interest that stem from financial support of professional medical associations by industry.   STUDY DESIGN A joint task force of members appointed by the Association for Academic Surgery and the Society of University Surgeons was convened in July 2009. Recommendations were developed regarding management of all potential conflicts of interest that can arise within the context of an academic surgical society, with specific focus on relationships with industry. Task force members reached consensus around each recommendation and the guidelines were subsequently adopted by the Executive Councils of both societies.   RESULTS The committee identified 4 primary areas of need for transparent and definitive management of conflict of interest: 1) individual society activities, including general budget support, society endorsements, and journal affiliation; 2) individual personnel conflicts such as society leadership and standards for disclosure of conflict; 3) meeting activities including budgetary support, program committee associations, and abstract review process; and 4) foundation support and research and travel awards. The resulting guidelines aim to protect the societies and their membership from undue bias that may undermine the credibility and mission of these associations.   CONCLUSIONS Policy guidelines to mitigate conflict of interest are necessary to protect the integrity of the work of academic surgical societies and their fiduciary duty to members and patients. Guidelines created and adopted by the Association for Academic Surgery and Society of University Surgeons form an effective model for academic surgical societies and their members.
BACKGROUND Our objective was to identify the prevalence of recent malpractice litigation against American surgeons and evaluate associations with personal well-being. Although malpractice lawsuits are often filed against American surgeons, the personal consequences with respect to burnout, depression, and career satisfaction are poorly understood.   STUDY DESIGN Members of the American College of Surgeons were sent an anonymous, cross-sectional survey in October 2010. Surgeons were asked if they had been involved in a malpractice suit during 2 previous years. The survey also evaluated demographic variables, practice characteristics, career satisfaction, burnout, and quality of life.   RESULTS Of the approximately 25,073 surgeons sampled, 7,164 (29%) returned surveys. Involvement in a recent malpractice suit was reported by 1,764 of 7,164 (24.6%) responding surgeons. Surgeons involved in a recent malpractice suit were younger, worked longer hours, had more night call, and were more likely to be in private practice (all p <0.0001). Recent malpractice suits were strongly related to burnout (p < 0.0001), depression (p < 0.0001), and recent thoughts of suicide (p < 0.0001) among surgeons. In multivariable modeling, both depression (odds ratio = 1.273; p = 0.0003) and burnout (odds ratio = 1.168; p = 0.0306) were independently associated with a recent malpractice suit after controlling for all other personal and professional characteristics. Hours worked, nights on call, subspecialty, and practice setting were also independently associated with recent malpractice suits. Surgeons who had experienced a recent malpractice suit reported less career satisfaction and were less likely to recommend a surgical or medical career to their children (p < 0.0001).   CONCLUSIONS Malpractice lawsuits are common and have potentially profound personal consequences for US surgeons. Additional research is needed to identify individual, organizational, and societal interventions to support surgeons subjected to malpractice litigation.
The objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) is a tool for measuring the dimensions of clinical competences. OSCE differs from traditional oral or written examination and results should not be influenced by lack of knowledge of the testing type. We prepared a video describing the practical aspects. On a Likert scale from 1 to 7 our video was rated 4 (interquartile range (IQR): 4-6). An informatory lecture was rated 4 (IQR: 3-5) and a rehearsal OSCE was rated 6 (IQR: 5-7). Video use peaked in the days up to OSCE. Accessibility should be improved by reaching out using the appropriate tools. We encourage the use of video for preparation to new examination types.
This paper describes the introduction of the training of non-technical skills on a mandatory course for surgical trainees. The training consisted of an introduction to non-technical skills in a plenum session and was followed by a full-scale simulation with debriefing in which participants reflected on their actions. Evaluations showed that > 90% of the participants found that the subject was relevant for their further training and some requested more simulation training. The course hereby addresses several of the Danish seven roles of a fully trained specialist doctor.
INTRODUCTION As with some procedures, trauma fellowship training and greater surgeon experience may result in better outcomes following intramedullary nailing (IMN) of diaphyseal femur fractures. However, surgeons with such training and experience may not always be available to all patients. The purpose of this study is to determine whether trauma training affects the post-operative difference in femoral version (DFV) following IMN.   MATERIALS AND METHODS Between 2000 and 2009, 417 consecutive patients with diaphyseal femur fractures (AO/OTA 32A-C) were treated via IMN. Inclusion criteria for this study included complete baseline and demographic documentation as well as pre-operative films for fracture classification and post-operative CT scanogram (per institutional protocol) for version and length measurement of both the nailed and uninjured femurs. Exclusion criteria included bilateral injuries, multiple ipsilateral lower extremity fractures, previous injury, and previous deformity. Of the initial 417 subjects, 355 patients met our inclusion criteria. Other data included in our analysis were age, sex, injury mechanism, open vs. closed fracture, daytime vs. nighttime surgery, mechanism of injury, and AO and Winquist classifications. Post-operative femoral version of both lower extremities was measured on CT scanogram by an orthopaedic trauma fellowship trained surgeon. Standard univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to determine statistically significant risk factors for malrotation between the two cohorts.   RESULTS Overall, 80.3% (288/355) of all fractures were fixed by trauma-trained surgeons. The mean post-operative DFV was 8.7째 in these patients, compared to 10.7째 in those treated by surgeons of other subspecialties. This difference was not statistically significant when accounting for other factors in a multivariate model (p>0.05). The same statistical trend was true when analyzing outcomes of only the more severe Winquist type III and IV fractures. Additionally, surgeon experience was not significantly predictive of post-operative version for either trauma or non-trauma surgeons (p>0.05 for both).   CONCLUSIONS Post-operative version or percentage of DFV >15째 did not significantly differ following IMN of diaphyseal femur fractures between surgeons with and without trauma fellowship training. However, prospective data that removes the inherent bias that the more complex cases are left for the traumatologists are required before a definitive comparison is made.
OBJECTIVES To survey surgeons on their beliefs and attitudes towards the use of placebo in surgery.   METHODS British orthopedic shoulder surgeons, attending a national conference in the United Kingdom, were asked to complete a self-report online questionnaire about their beliefs and attitudes towards the use of placebo related to surgical intervention. The survey included questions about ethical issues, the mechanism of placebo effects, and any concerns regarding its use.   RESULTS 100 surgeons who participated in the survey believed that placebo surgery is ethically acceptable (96%), especially as a part of a clinical trial (46%). Respondents thought that a placebo effect in surgery is real i.e. has a scientific basis (92%), that placebo can be therapeutically beneficial (77%), and that it involves psychological mechanisms (96%). Over half of the respondents (58%) have used a surgical procedure with a significant placebo component at least once in their professional career. Their main concern about placebo use in surgery was that it might involve an element of deception.   CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS Surgeons generally agreed that a placebo component to surgical intervention might exist. They also supported placebo use in clinical trials and considered it ethical, providing it does not involve deception of patients. More studies are needed, particularly among other surgical specialties and with larger numbers of participants, to better understand the use of placebo in surgery.
PURPOSE The aim of this study was to evaluate the association between surgeon volume and patient outcomes among different race ethnicities undergoing thyroid or parathyroid surgery.   METHODS The nationwide inpatient sample was used to identify all thyroidectomy and parathyroidectomy admissions from 2003 to 2009, using International Classification of Diseases, 9th Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM) procedure codes. Race, demographic, and clinical characteristics of patients were collected, along with surgeon volume, to predict the length of stay (LOS), complication rates, mortality, and total charges by racial group, using univariate and multivariate analyses.   RESULTS A total of 106,314 thyroid and parathyroid surgeries were included in the current analysis. Of these patients, 54혻% were Caucasian, 11혻% African American, 7혻% Hispanic, and 3혻% Asian. Mean LOS was longer for African American patients (4혻짹혻8.7혻days) than for Caucasians (2.3혻짹혻5.5혻days) [p혻<혻0.001]. African Americans had higher overall complications (16.8혻%) compared with Caucasians (11혻%), Hispanics (13.5혻%), and Asians (12혻%) [p혻<혻0.001]. In-hospital mortality was higher for African Americans (0.8혻%) compared with that from other race groups (0.3혻%) [p혻<혻0.001]. Mean total charges were significantly higher for African Americans ($33,292혻짹혻$67,387) compared with those for Caucasians ($22,855혻짹혻$40,167) (p혻<혻0.001). African Americans had less access to intermediate- (10-99 cases) and high- (>100 cases) volume surgeons compared with Caucasians-45 versus 49혻%, and 16 versus 19혻%, respectively (p혻<혻0.001). Higher surgeon volume was associated with improved outcomes (p혻<혻0.001). Racial disparity in all investigated outcomes was still significantly evident even after stratification by surgeon volume.   CONCLUSION Higher surgeon volume is associated with improved patient outcomes. However, our data suggests that the observed racial disparities in thyroid and parathyroid surgery go beyond access to quality healthcare providers.
This article presents a current view of training in neurorhinology and focuses on the level of evidence for the clinical question of 'how many cases are needed to achieve proficiency in endoscopic endonasal skull base surgery?' The authors discuss what defines surgical proficiency, what makes up the learning curve and how it shifts with increasing experience, comparisons of learning curves for different skull base surgeries, and conclude with a discussion and recommendations for achieving high-level proficiency.
BACKGROUND The potential impact of shortages of the surgical workforce on both urban and rural hospitals is undefined. There is a predicted shortage of 30,000 surgeons by 2030 and the need to train and hire more than 100,000 surgeons. The aim of this study is to estimate the average recruitment needs in our nation's hospitals for 7 surgical specialties to ensure adequate access to surgical care as the U.S. population grows to 364 million by 2030.   METHODS We used the census figure of 309 million in 2010 for U.S. population. Currently there are estimated to be 3,012 urban hospitals and 1,998 rural hospitals in the U.S. (American Hospital Association's Trend Watch report, 2009). At 253 million people (82 % of the population of 309 million in 2010) receive healthcare in urban hospitals; 56 million people receive healthcare in rural hospitals (18%). We assumed a work force model based on our previous publications, equal population growth in all geographic areas, recruitment by rural hospitals limited to Ob-Gyn, General Surgery, and Orthopedics, and that the percentage of the population receiving care at urban and rural hospitals will stay constant.   RESULTS Rural hospitals will have to recruit an average of 3.4 OBGYN's, and an average of 1.6 Orthos, and 2.0 GS for a total of 7 full-time equivalents in the period from 2011 to 2030. Urban hospitals which have to recruit surgical specialists will have to recruit ten Ob-Gyns, about 5 Orthos, 6 GS's, 5 ear, nose, and throat surgeons (ENT's), an average of 2.5 urologists, a neurosurgeon, and a thoracic surgeon to meet the recruiting goals for the surgical services for their hospitals.   CONCLUSION Rural hospitals will be in competition with urban hospitals for hiring from a limited pool of surgeons. As urban hospitals have a socioeconomic advantage in hiring, surgical care in rural areas may be at risk. It is imperative that each rural hospital analyze local future healthcare needs and devise strategies that will enhance hiring and retention to optimize access to surgical care.
BACKGROUND In the operating room, factors such as interruptions, communication failures, team familiarity and the unpredictability of unplanned cases can prolong the length of an operation, and lead to inefficiency and increased costs. However, little is known about the extent to which such factors contribute to extending the expected length of an operation. Aim To describe factors that prolong the expected length of an operation.   METHODS Structured observations were performed on a purposive sample of 160 surgical procedures across 10 specialties of planned and unplanned surgeries. During the 6-month period, a trained observer structured observations. Bivariate correlations and a standard multiple regression model were developed to describe associations among unplanned operations, interruptions, prebriefings, team familiarity, communication failures and the outcome, and deviation from expected operation time.   RESULTS Of the three explanatory variables entered into the regression model, the only significant predictor of deviation in expected length of operation was the number of communication failures (p=0.013). This model explained 4.5% of the variance in deviation in expected length of operation (p=0.018).   CONCLUSIONS The results of this study validate the role of prospective observational research methods in unveiling critical factors that contribute to deviation in expected length of operation. These results have the potential to inform evidence-based interventions aimed at ameliorating the effects of miscommunications, hence improve patient safety.
OBJECTIVE Quebec was the first Canadian province to implement a 16-hour workday restriction. Our aim was to assess and compare Quebec's surgical residents' and professors' perception regarding the effects on the educational environment, quality of care, and quality of life.   DESIGN The Surgical Theater Educational Environment Measure, the Postgraduate Hospital Educational Environment Measure, quality of the medical act, and quality-of-life questionnaires were administered 6 months after the work-hour restrictions.   SETTING Universit챕 de Montr챕al Surgery Department, Montr챕al, Qu챕bec, Canada; Universit챕 de Sherbrooke Surgery Department, Sherbrooke, Qu챕bec, Canada; Universit챕 Laval Surgery Department, Qu챕bec, Qu챕bec, Canada; and McGill University Surgery Department, Montr챕al, Qu챕bec, Canada.   PARTICIPANTS Surgical residents and professors of all specialties within the 4 university surgery departments in Quebec through a voluntary web-based survey.   RESULTS A total of 280 questionnaires were analyzed with response rates of 29.7% and 16.4% for residents and professors, respectively. Data were coded on a scale from 2 (strong improvement perception) to -2 (strong deterioration perception). The professors perceived a higher negative effect than the residents did on the educational environment, i.e., role of autonomy (-0.399 vs. -0.577, p < 0.001), teaching (-0.496 vs. -0.540, p < 0.001), social support (-0.345 vs. -0.535, p < 0.001), and surgical learning (-0.409 vs. -0.626, p < 0.001). The professors also observed a higher negative effect on patients' safety (-0.199 vs. -0.595, p = 0.003) and quality of care (-0.077 vs. -0.421, p = 0.014). The latter was even perceived as unchanged by residents (-0.077, 95% CI: -0.249 to 0.095). The residents perceived a negative effect on their quality of life, whereas the professors believed the contrary (0.500 vs -0.496, p < 0.001). More professors than residents believed residency should be prolonged (80.8% vs. 50.6%, p < 0.001).   CONCLUSIONS Residents and professors perceive a mild negative effect on the educational environment and quality of care, whereas their perception on quality of life is opposite. The professors seem concerned about adequate training to the point of considering increasing training length.
OBJECTIVE Interest in cardiothoracic surgery (CTS) as a career has decreased over the past decade. Anecdotal evidence suggests that many surgeons develop an interest in CTS before medical school and even before college. This study evaluates the interest of high-school students at a magnet high school, with regard to careers in medicine, in surgery, and in CTS.   DESIGN A survey assessing career interests and values was conducted among junior and senior high-school students. Students were given a 1-hour presentation by a cardiothoracic (CT) surgeon on the postgraduate training process and then completed a postpresentation survey.   SETTING A magnet math and science high school, the Kalamazoo Area Mathematics and Science Center.   PARTICIPANTS Of 128 students, 117 (91% response rate) completed the survey.   RESULTS Overall, 38% of students reported having a high interest in medicine; of this group, 58% reported a high interest in surgery and 36% reported having a high interest in CTS. Men were more likely than women were to have a high interest in surgery and CTS (p < 0.001). Students with at least 1 family member as a physician vs those without were more likely to be interested in medicine, surgery, and CTS and also have a higher level of concern for postgraduation debt (p < 0.01). Women were more likely than men were to have a high level of concern about postgraduation debt (p = 0.018). After a presentation by a CT surgeon, students showed no changes in interest in medicine careers but did report an increased level of knowledge about the process of becoming a CT surgeon, going from 31% to 72%.   CONCLUSIONS There exists a large interest in both surgery and CTS at the high-school level, but there may be a need for more active outreach to maintain and foster their interest in surgery and CTS through undergraduate and medical school.
A younger vascular surgeon has been recruited to start a new program at a suburban hospital outside of a large city hosting a world-class medical center. The new program will provide state-of-the-art equipment, including robotics, free office space, and a generous salary guarantee. Dr Ready obtained a license in the state where he is relocating and is preparing to move. He is an excellent technical surgeon but is uncomfortable with complex aneurysm surgery. This morning he went to sign a contract with the hospital and found that a clause that prevents him from referring patients to physicians outside the hospital in strong legalese is included. How should he proceed?
BACKGROUND In Africa surgical trainees (residents) are often 'at the coalface' in managing surgical emergencies. A practical course on management of surgical emergencies was developed, as requested and guided by the learning needs of surgical trainees in East/Central Africa, to teach structured thinking processes in surgical emergencies; to thoroughly assess participants' knowledge, technical and non-technical skills; and to correlate assessment scores with participants' feedback on course quality.   METHODS Curriculum design was aimed at learners' needs, as guided by local trainers and previous teaching. A 5-day course was developed on emergencies in critical care and trauma, general surgery, orthopaedics, obstetrics and urology; delivered through lectures, tutorials and practical sessions, with individual mentoring. Participants' knowledge was assessed through end-of-course tests and, with their practical and non-technical skills, evaluated formatively. Opportunity for immediate detailed feedback was provided, and for follow-up 6 months later.   RESULTS All participants completed the course successfully, passed knowledge tests, and received satisfactory scores in continuous assessment. There was good correlation between formative and summative assessment scores. Candidates rated course content, delivery and usefulness very highly; 'open text' noted no such previous training. After six months 90 % of course participants indicated that the course had significantly improved their ability to manage surgical emergencies.   CONCLUSIONS An intensive course on management of surgical emergencies can be effectively delivered by a small core faculty for each specialty. Feedback from participants and local faculty indicated that this course filled a specific learning niche. Effective assessment can be based on continuous evaluation during course participation.
BACKGROUND The quality of service and success of patient care and research in most fields of medicine depend on effective collaboration between different specialties. Paediatric surgery is a relatively young specialty in Nigeria and such collaborations are desirable. This survey assesses the nature and extent of collaboration between paediatric surgery and other specialties in Nigeria.   MATERIALS AND METHODS This is a questionnaire survey carried out in November 2008 among paediatric surgeons and their trainees practising in Nigeria. Questionnaires were distributed and retrieved either by hand or e-mailing. The responses were then collated and analysed using the SPSS 17.0.   RESULTS Forty-seven respondents were included in the survey. Forty-five (95.7%) respondents thought that there was inadequate collaboration and that there was a need for an increased collaboration between paediatric surgery and other specialties. Anaesthesia, paediatrics and radiology are among the specialties where collaborations were most required but not adequately received. Collaboration had been required from these specialties in areas of patient care, training and research. Reasons for inadequate collaboration included the paucity of avenues for inter-specialty communication and exchange of ideas 33 (70.3%), lack of awareness of the need for collaboration 32 (68.1%), tendency to apportion blames for bad outcome 13 (27.7%), and mutual suspicion 8 (17%).   CONCLUSION There is presently inadequate collaboration between paediatric surgery and other specialties in Nigeria. There is a need for more inter-specialty support, communication, and exchange of ideas in order to achieve desirable outcomes.
OBJECTIVES We introduced the OSCE (objective structured clinical examination) as a method of assessment in a problem-based learning (PBL) curriculum. The OSCE is a clinical competency test and a very good example of a practical performance (shows how) assessment instead of a theoretical written measurement (knows and knows how). The OSCE at this Department was designed to assess some of the skills that are supposedly gained during a PBL curriculum (skills such as critical thinking, problem-solving and hypothesis formation). The aim of this study was to find where the strengths and weaknesses of learning contents are during the CMF practical course and how we may raise the students' clinical competence. Furthermore we wanted to examine the possibility of achieving an OSCE with ten stations for a single department.   MATERIAL AND METHODS Students rotated through ten test stations of 5 min duration, separated by a 1 min changeover break. At each station the students' performance was observed and assessed by an examiner using a standardized multi-item checklist. All students of the eighth semester (n = 26) of the 'Carolinum Dental Institute' at the University of Frankfurt were evaluated in summer 2009 in a ten station circuit of different topics, including trauma, practical knowledge and oncology. Following this all the students and examiners evaluated the OSCE.   RESULTS The overall average score was 63.2% (SD 짹 8.89%). Subdivided the average results were; trauma (58.7 짹 6.79%), practical knowledge (66.1 짹 7.29%) and oncology (50 짹 4.81%). The overall rating of the OSCE was 1.69 (SD 짹 0.78) for the students and 1.00 (SD 짹 0) for the examiners.   CONCLUSION With good preparation, it is possible to run a ten station-OSCE circuit with ten examiners in one afternoon without interrupting patient care. The degree of difficulty was mainly acceptable. The overall average score for students' was within a range of 40-80%, which is similar to the international literature. The questionnaires showed that students and examiners viewed the new OSCE very positively.
BACKGROUND Thoracic, cardiac, and general surgeons perform esophageal resections in the United States. This article examines the impact of surgeon subspecialty on outcomes after esophagectomy.   METHODS Esophagectomies performed between 1998 and 2008 were identified in the Nationwide Inpatient Sample. Surgeons were classified as thoracic, cardiac, or general surgeons if greater than 65% of their operative case mix was representative of their specialty. Surgeons with less than 65% of a specialty-specific case mix served as controls. Regression equations calculated the independent effect of surgeon specialty, surgeon volume, and operative approach (transhiatal versus transthoracic) on outcomes.   RESULTS Of the 40,589 patients who underwent esophagectomies, surgeon identifiers were available for 23,529 patients. Based on case mix, thoracic, cardiac, and general surgeons performed 3,027 (12.9%), 688 (2.9%), and 4,086 (17.4%) esophagectomies, respectively. Operative technique did not independently affect risk-adjusted outcomes-mortality, morbidity, and failure to rescue (defined as death after a complication). Surgeon volume independently lowered mortality and failure to rescue by 4% (p  0.002 for both), but not complications (p = 0.6). High-volume hospitals (>12 procedures/year) independently lowered mortality (adjusted odds ratio [AOR], 0.67, 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.46-0.96), and failure to rescue (AOR, 0.64; 95% CI, 0.44-0.94). Esophageal resections performed by general surgeons were associated with higher mortality (AOR, 1.87; 95% CI 1.02-3.45) and failure to rescue (AOR, 1.95; 95% CI, 1.06-3.61) but not complications (AOR, 0.97; 95% CI, 0.64-1.49).   CONCLUSIONS General surgeons perform the major proportion of esophagectomies in the United States. Surgeon subspecialty is not associated with the risk of complications developing but instead is associated with mortality and failure to rescue from complications. Surgeon subspecialty case mix is an important determinant of outcomes for patients undergoing esophagectomy.
BACKGROUND The lack of correlation between the symptomatic outcome after fundoplication and the results of objective measurements has been demonstrated. Therefore, subjective tools are needed to measure the outcomes of the treatment. Long-term results concerning health-related quality of life (HRQoL) after laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication (LNF) performed in a community-based hospital are lacking. The objective of this study was to describe HRQoL of an LNF cohort 10 years after surgery performed in a community-based hospital.   SUBJECTS AND METHODS In 1997-1999, 107 LNFs were performed. The 15D questionnaire was mailed to all patients, and consent to participate in the study was requested. The patients who agreed to participate were interviewed. The resulting 15D profile and single index scores were compared with those of a sample of age-standardized general population (n=6053).   RESULTS Of the 107 patients, 64 (59.8%) participated in the study (40 men; mean age, 61.9 years; range, 28-85 years). The mean 15D score for our patient group was 0.860 versus 0.888 for the age-standardized general population (P=.030). The mean 15D score of the patients who were satisfied with the surgical results was 0.870 (median, 0.890), which is clinically the same as that of the general population. Among the patients, dissatisfaction with the results of surgery decreased the mean 15D score by 0.069 (P=.023).   CONCLUSIONS Our long-term follow-up study suggests that, in the majority of patients, HRQoL after LNF performed in a community-based hospital is similar to that of the general population, while the subjective failure of surgery leads to suboptimal results. The multidimensional 15D instrument seems a promising HRQoL instrument also when applied to gastroesophageal reflux disease patients.
BACKGROUND Debate exists within the surgical education community about whether 5 years is sufficient time to train a general surgeon, whether graduating chief residents are confident in their skills, why residents choose to do fellowships, and the scope of general surgery practice today.   STUDY DESIGN In May 2013, a 16-question online survey was sent to every general surgery program director in the United States for dissemination to each graduating chief resident (CR).   RESULTS Of the 297 surveys returned, 76% of CRs trained at university programs, 81% trained at 5-year programs, and 28% were going directly into general surgery practice. The 77% of CRs who had done >950 cases were significantly more comfortable than those who had done less (p < 0.0001). Only a few CRs were uncomfortable performing a laparoscopic colectomy (7%) or a colonoscopy (6%), and 80% were comfortable being on call at a Level I trauma center. Compared with other procedures, CRs were most uncomfortable with open common bile duct explorations (27%), pancreaticoduodenectomies (38%), hepatic lobectomies (48%), and esophagectomies (60%) (p < 0.00001). Of those going into fellowships, 67% said they truly had an interest in that specialty and only 7% said it was because they were not confident in their surgical skills.   CONCLUSIONS Current graduates of general surgery residencies appear to be confident in their skills, including care of the trauma patient. Fellowships are being chosen primarily because of an interest in the subspecialty. General surgery residency no longer provides adequate training in esophageal or hepatopancreatobiliary surgery.
OBJECTIVE To compare the cost and safety of placement of Broviac catheters in children by pediatric intensivists in a sedation suite versus placement by pediatric surgeons in the operating room.   DESIGN Single-center retrospective analysis.   SETTING Pediatric sedation suite and operating rooms in a tertiary care children's hospital.   PATIENTS All pediatric patients with Broviac catheters placed (n = 253) at this institution over a 3-year period from 2007 to 2009.   INTERVENTIONS None.   MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS We reviewed the charts of all pediatric patients with Broviac catheters placed, either by intensivists or surgeons, and compared cost and outcomes. Procedure safety was assessed and categorized into immediate, short-term (within 2뎩k of procedure), and long-term outcomes. Anesthetic safety and billing data for the procedure were also collected. Among similar patient populations, immediate complications, such as pneumothorax, procedure failure (p > 0.999), and anesthetic complications (p = 0.60), were not significantly different. Short-term outcomes, including infection (p = 0.27) and catheter malfunction (p > 0.999), were not different. Long-term outcomes, including mean indwelling catheter days (p = 0.60) and removal due to catheter infection (p = 0.09), were not different between the groups. Overall cost of the procedure was significantly different: $7,031 (짹 $784) when performed by surgeons and $3,565 (짹 $311) when performed by intensivists (p < 0.001).   CONCLUSIONS Pediatric critical care physicians can place Broviac catheters as safely as pediatric surgeons and at a lower cost in a defined patient population.
OBJECTIVE Evaluation of fatigue and pain following surgical activities.   METHODS Cross-sectional study. We distributed a self-evaluation questionnaire to 180 surgeons to investigate working postures and fatigue and/or pain following working activities.   RESULTS 100 surgeons replied (74 male), mean age 40.1 (SD 10.85; 26-65). Multivariate analysis suggests that the highest risk factor for developing muscle fatigue whilst performing surgical operations is standing compared to sitting (OR: 4.92; 95% CI: 1.32-18.33),followed by the ability to alternate between the two postures (OR: 3.46: 95% CI: 1.26-9.52). Surgeons who complain of intense fatigue when standing have 16 times the risk of developing musculoskeletal pain than surgeons who complain of light fatigue when standing (OR: 15.77; 95% CI: 1.51-164.37). The ability to adjust the height of the operating table before each operation reduces the risk of developing musculoskeletal pain by 83% (OR: 017; 95% CI: 0.03-0.87); 90.9% of surgeons who rest their forearms for less than half the duration of an operation reported pain.   CONCLUSIONS Fatigue and pain associated with performing surgical interventions could be managed more effectively by: controlling the working posture, being able to rest forearms, being able to regulate the height of the operating table, and possibly by applying the ergonomic guidelines.
BACKGROUND Continuing medical education and objective performance assessment remain the key components of recertification. Objective skills assessment in routine practice remains challenging due to extensive variations in case selection and treatments. This study explores expert opinions regarding objective skills assessment for specialists within the framework of recertification.   METHODS We used a qualitative, semi-structured interview-based approach to obtain information and suggestions about key issues and recommendations relating to specialists' skills assessment. Twenty-two face-to-face interviews were conducted. Interviews were transcribed and analysed by two reviewers.   RESULTS The information from the interviews was categorized under the headings of: (1) the components of specialist-level skills, (2) the methods for assessing specialist skills, (3) the types of tools and procedures used during observational assessment, (4) the unsuccessful specialists, and (5) the selection and training of assessors for specialist assessment.   CONCLUSIONS Outcome-based assessment of performance followed by observation of practice, were recommended as effective modes of evaluation of performance.
OBJECTIVES To explore the current status of performance feedback (debriefing) in the operating room and to develop and evaluate an evidence-based, user-informed intervention termed 'SHARP' to improve debriefing in surgery.   BACKGROUND Effective debriefing is a key educational technique for optimizing learning in surgical settings. However, there is a lack of a debriefing culture within surgery. Few studies have prospectively evaluated educational interventions to improve the quality and quantity of performance feedback in surgery.   METHODS This was a prospective pre- and post-study of 100 cases involving 22 trainers (attendings) and 30 surgical residents (postgraduate years 3-8). A trained researcher assessed the quality of debriefings provided to the trainee using the validated Objective Structured Assessment of Debriefing (OSAD) tool alongside ethnographic observation. Following the first 50 cases, an educational intervention termed 'SHARP' was introduced and measures repeated for a further 50 cases. User satisfaction with SHARP was assessed via questionnaire. Twenty percent of the cases were observed independently by a second researcher to test interrater reliability.   RESULTS Interrater reliability for OSAD was excellent (ICC = 0.994). Objective scores of debriefing (OSAD) improved significantly after the SHARP intervention: median pre = 19 (range, 8-31); median post = 33 (range, 26-40), P < 0.001. Strong correlations between observer (OSAD) and trainee rating of debriefing were obtained (median  = 0.566, P < 0.01). Ethnographic observations also supported a significant improvement in both quality and style of debriefings. Users reported high levels of satisfaction in terms of usefulness, feasibility, and comprehensiveness of the SHARP tool.   CONCLUSIONS SHARP is an effective and efficient means of improving performance feedback in the operating room. Its routine use should be promoted to optimize workplace-based learning and foster a positive culture of debriefing and performance improvement within surgery.
We present our experience in the design and development of a training program in paediatric and neonatal laparoscopic surgery, and the determination of face validity by the attendants. Data included in the present study was obtained from five consecutive editions of our Neonatal and Paediatric Laparoscopic Surgery Course. Our training model, with a total duration of 21 hours, begins with acquisition of knowledge in ergonomics and instrument concepts, after which the attendants develop basic laparoscopic dexterity through the performance of hands-on physical simulator tasks. During the second and third days of the course, surgeons undertook various surgical techniques hands-on animal model. At the end of the training program, a subjective evaluation questionnaire was handed out to the attendants, in which different didactic and organizational aspects were considered. We obtained a highly positive score on all questions concerning the different topics and techniques included in the training program (> or = 9 points over 10). 78,5% of the 54 attendants was in accordance with the course total duration, whilst 21,5% considered that it should be of longer duration. Regarding abilities' self assessment, 79,1% considered themselves capacitated to perform trained procedures on live patients. The presented training model has obtained a very positive valuation score, leading to an increase in the attendants' self confidence in the application of learned techniques to their clinical practice.
BACKGROUND/PURPOSE Staying abreast of the literature in a given speciality is difficult. The aim of this study is to analyze the publication patterns of the neonatal surgical literature over the last six decades.   MATERIALS A search strategy for the Web of Science database was designed using MeSH defined terms for 10 index neonatal surgical conditions, with output analyzed over two time-periods.   RESULTS There were 6215 and 6144 publications for periods 1 (1945-1994) and 2 (1995-2010), respectively. There were 24 and 546 articles published in 1945 and 2010, respectively. The mean citation counts of the top 50 publications are 228 and 156 for periods 1 and 2, respectively. There were 6 and 11 authors with two or more publications in the top 50 list in periods 1 and 2, respectively. Three of the pediatric surgery journals cumulatively have published 30.9% of the total articles.   CONCLUSIONS Publication patterns for neonatal surgical conditions have changed significantly over time. The majority of articles are published outside of pediatric surgical journals. Pediatric surgeons should not limit their reading to these journals.
BACKGROUND There is an assumption that there is a similarity between surgeon-patient and primary care consultations. Yet, surgeon communication has had far less analytic attention than its primary care counterparts. Therefore, this assumption of similarity (and the proposition here of dissimilarity) has yet to be evidenced through detailed interactional analysis.   METHODS Conversation analysis (CA) is a methodology used to understand both mundane and institutional interactions. Using CA, we have developed an understanding of surgeon-patient interactions in outpatient clinic settings in New Zealand. Rather than attempting to determine what 'bad' communication is, we describe and analyse what occurs routinely in surgeon-patient consultations, particularly how these interactions are built up by both patient and doctor.   RESULTS This research shows that while surgeon-patient consultations share some similarities to the overall structure of primary care consultations, there are two unique structures that occur in surgical consultations. These structures follow a logical progression of activities and are influenced by the type of visit (referred versus follow-up).   DISCUSSION This article summarizes the first comprehensive description of the overall interactional structure of surgeon-patient consultations. It demonstrates that surgeon-patient consultations are structurally distinct from primary care consultations. This key finding has implications for surgeon-specific research and education, highlighting the need to question current assumptions in communication training and in clinical practice.
INTRODUCTION The quality medical information on Internet is highly variable. The aim of this study is to determine if Web pages addressing four common pediatric surgical topics (CT) and four uncommon pediatric surgical topics (UT) differ significantly in terms of quality and/or characteristics.   MATERIALS AND METHODS We performed an Internet search regarding four CT, addressing more frequent clinical conditions with an incidence1:1.500 children (inguinal hernia, varicocele, umbilical hernia, and phimosis) and four UT addressing less frequent clinical conditions with an incidence1:1.500 children (anorectal malformation, intestinal atresia, gastroschisis, and omphalocele), using a popular search engine (Google). We evaluated readability with the Flesch reading ease (FRE) and the Flesch-Kincaid grade (FKG) and quality of content using the site checker of the HON Code of Conduct (HON code) for each website.   RESULTS In this study, 30/40 websites addressing CT versus 33/50 addressing UT responded to our criteria. No differences statistically significant in advertisements between the two groups were found (15 vs. 16%) (p>0.05). No differences were found in terms of time from last update, owner/author type, financial disclosure, accreditation, or advertising. CT had higher quality level according to the HON code (6.54짹1.38 vs. 5.05짹1.82) (p<0.05). Mean FRE was 47.38짹14.27 versus 46.24짹14.56, respectively, for CT and UT (p>0.05). The mean FKG was 8.1짹1.9 for CT versus 8짹1.9 for UT (p>0.05).   CONCLUSIONS Websites devoted to pediatric surgical topics have higher readability and quality information for disease diagnosis and natural history. Otherwise, the quality of pediatric surgical information on the Internet is high for CT and UT. A high reading level is required to use these resources.
BACKGROUND The objective of the present study was to explore how women surgeons manage their work-life balance in three environmental and cultural settings.   METHOD Members of the Japan Association of Women Surgeons (JAWS), the United States of America (US) based Association of Women Surgeons (AWS), and the Women's Chapter of the College of Surgeons of Hong Kong (WCHK) were surveyed.   RESULTS Among 822 women surgeons contacted, 252 responded (response rate 31.8 %; 55.5 % JAWS, 28.2 % AWS, and 25.3 % WCHK). Japanese women surgeons think that work is the number one priority, whereas US and Hong Kong China (HK) respondents think the number one priority is home life. Work satisfaction level was generally high among women surgeons in all countries; however, 19 % of US surgeons are somewhat dissatisfied with their work and 76.1 % think that men are treated more favorably than women at work. Whereas 51.6 % of Japanese women surgeons think that men are treated more favorably than women at home, at the same time they placed more importance on the role of women in the family. More than half of Japanese women surgeons are 'uncertain' about their career path in the future, whereas 55.2/87.1 % of US/HK respondents are optimistic. All surgeons recommended expanding support for child rearing or nursing care during work hours, promoting a flexible work schedule and changing some of the older conventional ideas about gender role.   CONCLUSIONS It is essential to address women surgeons' concerns to enable them to have a clearer vision and a challenging career, and to be more certain about their personal and professional goals.
Uterine artery embolization (UAE) has been performed by interventional radiology since the 1990s for symptomatic uterine fibroids with considerable success. Endovascular-trained vascular surgeons possess the necessary skills to successfully perform this procedure after an adequate but brief training period. Fourteen successful UAE procedures were performed by two vascular surgeons over a one-year period. Indications for the procedures were bleeding (12/14 patients, 86%), pain/bloating/pressure (13/14 patients, 93%) and dyspareunia (2/14 patients, 14%). All patients were initially evaluated by a gynecologist and referred for this procedure. Complications were minor and limited. Clinical follow-up demonstrated near-complete to complete symptom resolution in all but one patient for a 93% short-term success rate. Follow-up ultrasound studies demonstrated a reduction in the uterine fibroid size in all patients three months or more postprocedure. The mean fibroid size reduction was 4.07-3.26 cm (20%), P < 0.005. UAE is a procedure of proven benefit, well-matched to many vascular surgeons' skills and practice. Up to this point, few vascular surgeons have incorporated this endovascular procedure into their practices. This initial and somewhat limited study demonstrates one vascular surgery group's early success with this procedure.
OBJECTIVE To determine how marital status and having children impact US general surgical residents' attitudes toward training and personal life.   BACKGROUND There is a paucity of research describing how family and children affect the experience of general surgery residents.   METHODS Cross-sectional survey involving all US categorical general surgery residents. Responses were evaluated by resident/program characteristics. Statistical analysis included the  test and hierarchical logistic regression modeling.   RESULTS A total of 4402 residents were included (82.4% response rate) and categorized as married, single, or other (separated/divorced/widowed). Men were more likely to be married (57.8% vs 37.9%, P < 0.001) and have children (31.5% vs 12.0%, P < 0.001). Married residents were most likely to look forward to work (P < 0.001), and report happiness at work (P < 0.001) and a good program fit (P < 0.001). 'Other' residents most frequently felt that work hours caused strain on family life (P < 0.001). Residents with children more frequently looked forward to work (P = 0.001), were happy at work (P = 0.001), and reported a good program fit (P = 0.034), but had strain on family life (P < 0.001), and worried about future finances (P = 0.005). On hierarchical logistic regression modeling, having children was predictive of a resident looking forward to work [odds ratio (OR): 1.22, P = 0.035], yet feeling that work caused family strain (OR: 1.66, P < 0.001); being single was associated with less strain (OR: 0.72, P < 0.001). The female gender was negatively associated with looking forward to work (OR: 0.81, P = 0.007).   CONCLUSIONS Residents who were married or parents reported greater satisfaction and work-life conflict. The complex effects of family on surgical residents should inform programs to target support mechanisms for their trainees.
OBJECTIVE We conducted a systematic review of published literature to gain a better understanding of the impact of advanced fellowships on surgical resident training and education.   BACKGROUND As fellowship opportunities rise, resident training may be adversely impacted.   METHODS PubMed, MEDLINE, Scopus, BIOSIS, Web of Science, and a manual search of article bibliographies. Of the 139 citations identified through the initial electronic search and screened for possible inclusion, 23 articles were retained and accepted for this review. Data were extracted regarding surgical specialty, methodology, sample population, outcomes measured, and results.   RESULTS Eight studies retrospectively compared the eras before and after the introduction of a fellowship or trended data over time. Approximately half used data from a single institution, whereas the other half used some form of national data or survey. Only 3 studies used national case data. Fourteen studies looked at general surgery, 6 at obstetrics-gynecology, 2 at urology, and 1 at otolaryngology. Only one study concluded that fellowships have a generally positive impact on resident education, whereas 9 others found a negative impact. The remaining 13 studies found mixed results (n = 6) or minimal to no impact (n = 7).   CONCLUSIONS The overall impact of advanced surgical fellowships on surgical resident education and training remains unclear, as most studies rely on limited data of questionable generalizability. A careful study of the national database of surgery resident case logs is essential to better understand how early surgical specialization and fellowships will impact the future of general surgery education.
In terms of clinical procedures (to take the example used in this article, hip operations), both public and private organizations provide highly professionalized services. For this service type, our knowledge about ownership differences is sparse. To begin to fill this gap, we investigate how the ownership of hip clinics affects professional behaviour, treatment quality and patient satisfaction. The comparison of private and public hip clinics is based on data from the Danish Hip Arthroplasty Register and the Danish Central Patient Register combined with 20 semi-structured interviews. We find that private clinics employ stronger individual financial incentives and try harder to increase the income/costs ratio than do public clinics. Private clinics optimize non-clinical factors such as waiting time much more than public clinics and have fewer complication-prone patients than public clinics. However, the clinical procedures are very similar in the two types of clinics. Private clinics do not achieve better clinical results, but patient satisfaction is nevertheless higher with private clinics. The implication is that ownership matters for highly professionalized services, but professionalism neutralizes some  but not all  ownership differences.
AIMS There is limited study on patient-centred attitudes with regards to the patient-physician relationship in physicians. The objective of this study was to examine and compare physician attitudes toward patient-centredness in four different medical settings.   METHODS The present study utilised a cross-sectional survey design and purposive sampling to recruit physicians from a single academic medical centre via face-to-face interviews. Patient-centred attitudes of physicians specialising in surgery, oncology, obstetrics and gynaecology and primary care (N = 78) were compared on the Patient-Practitioner Orientation Scale (PPOS) using an independent one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA). The four medical specialties comprised the four levels, with role orientation (patient-centred orientation vs. doctor-centred orientation) as the dependent measure.   RESULTS A significant level of difference (p < 0.001) was found between the four specialisations: oncologists were found to have the highest level of patient-centeredness, followed by obstetricians & gynaecologists and primary care physicians, with surgeons being the least patient-centred among specialisations sampled.   CONCLUSION These data are the first from the South-East Asian region to demonstrate differences in physician attitudes between medical specialties. Our findings prompt further investigation and confirmation as to whether physicians with particular attitudinal traits are attracted to any particular specialties of medicine, or if physician attitudes are acquired through professional experience and training. In addition, this study offers better insight into the attitudinal differences of physician between medical specialities.
To further clarify whether the transplant surgical research workforce is adequately poised to further scientific achievement, we have investigated the publication productivity of young transplant surgeons. Our hypothesis is that recent young transplant surgeons write fewer academic manuscripts than their senior colleagues did when they were young surgeons. We compared the number of first and senior author publications in the first 5 years after completion of fellowship among recent transplant surgeons (completed fellowship 2000-2004) and former young surgeons (completed fellowship 1990-1994). Recent young surgeons wrote fewer overall manuscripts (0.94 vs. 1.67, p < 0.05), as well as basic science manuscripts (0.21 vs. 0.54, p < 0.05) and clinical manuscripts (0.73 vs. 1.14, p < 0.05). Adjusting for the number of trainees, we note that recent young surgeons published 59% fewer basic science publications (IRR 0.41, 95% CI 0.29-0.57, p < 0.001) and 33% fewer clinical publications (IRR 0.67, 95% CI 0.56-0.82, p < 0.001). Among fellows in the 2000-2004 cohort, there was a 32% lower chance of publishing at least one paper compared with fellows in the 1990-1994 cohort (IRR 0.68, 95% CI 0.51-0.89, p = 0.006). These findings raise concerns about the future place of transplant surgeons within the science that shapes our own field.
UNLABELLED The curriculum of the Medical Faculty is a result of a compromise between the need to upgrade and extend the material and the immutability of study duration. In result of reduction of time for acquisition of basic practical skills. THE AIM OF THE STUDY was to evaluate the current curriculum by students and answer the question: What are the students' expectations of teaching surgery? and to compare the opinion in two academic centers in Poland.   MATERIAL AND METHODS The survey embraced 85 students of the Medical Faculty of IV (25.9%), V (22.35%) and VI (51.75%) year of the Medical University of Gda흦sk and VI year students of the Pomeranian University of Szczecin (PUM--34%). Students completed a 19-item questionnaire, send by e-mail. Questions were closed (yes / no or grades 1-5) with the option of opinion adding to each item. The Statistica (version 9) package for calculations was used. Differences with p<0.05 was considered statistically significant. Qualitative data (opinions) were prepared in the form of summary tables, generalized or quoted.   RESULTS Satisfaction with the education of students amounted to 2,1-2,4 (on a scale 1-5). There is a weak association between gender and choice of surgical specialties. Declaring an interest in surgery does not affect the assessment of classes. Most students believe that the amount of theoretical classes is sufficient, there is lack of practical classes. Among procedures they want to learn, most often were mentioned: bladder catheterization, suturing, wound treatment and putting stomach tube. Additionally, they pay attention to the lack of affordable learning materials.   CONCLUSIONS Students expect a full 'non-corridor' utilization of classes, learn and practice the basic and most frequent activities at the patient. They are dissatisfied with the current training methods, and would be taught in a diverse and active way.
BACKGROUND Subjective workload in healthcare employees is suspected to be important for the performance and safety of healthcare delivery. This study investigates associations between workflow interruptions and hospital doctors' capability to manage their perceived workload in a safe and efficient manner.   AIM To examine the relationship of observed workflow interruptions with hospital doctors' perceived workload during day clinical shifts.   METHODS A prospective study of 43 full shift observations with 29 doctors working in internal medicine and surgical specialties. Workflow interruptions were assessed via observation using a previously validated observation instrument. Doctors assessed their workload twice throughout their day shift using three items of the validated NASA-Task Load Index (NASA-TLX; mental demands, effort, frustration).   RESULTS Hospital doctors were on average disrupted 3.66 times per hour. Most frequent were interruptions by nursing staff, telephone/beeper interruptions and by fellow doctors. Senior doctors reported higher workload than their junior colleagues. Overall workflow interruptions were significantly related to doctors' workload (棺 = 0.22; p = 0.03). Further analyses revealed that doctors' workload was associated particularly with interruptions by nursing personnel (棺 = 0.23; p = 0.03).   CONCLUSIONS Frequent workflow interruptions may be linked with increased workload in doctors. Healthcare environments need to be better designed to reduce unnecessary interruptions and distractions so that hospital doctors can manage clinical work efficiently and safely.
AIMS The rate of laboratory referrals for thrombophilia patients' genetic workup was assessed and compared among the medical and surgical specialties and subspecialties at a major tertiary care center in Lebanon.   METHODS DNA extraction was performed using the PEL-FREEZ extraction kit (PEL-FREEZ; DYNAL) and the Factor V, prothrombin, and methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase genotypic profiles were done using the FV-PTH-MTHFR StripAssay kit (ViennaLab) that employs a polymerase chain reaction-reverse hybridization method. A total of 2238 referred cases were analyzed.   RESULTS Around 42.23% of all referred cases turned out to have a thrombosis-associated mutation. Referrals from medical and surgical specialties were almost equal. In the surgical specialty, most referrals came from the department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, while in the medical speciality, most of the workup referrals originated from the Hematology/Oncology physicians. However, low referral rates were reported from the emergency department and family medicine practitioners.   CONCLUSION Genetic testing for thrombophilia workup is gaining more importance among the different medical and surgical specialties and is worth being introduced into the offered test lists of all established molecular diagnostics laboratories.
Although comparative effectiveness trials and nationally recognized clinical guidelines offer substantial guidance about ideal patient treatment, we remain largely uninformed about the patterns of care seen in everyday clinical practice. To address this gap in knowledge, we looked at registry-based data on breast cancer care at two neighboring healthcare institutions with a specific focus on whether organizational boundaries determine the physicians that a patient will see. From an initial patient-oriented data set, we developed a social network of physicians, modeling their interactions over the course of the provided treatments. Applying a mixture of visual and quantitative analyses to this network, we found evidence for strong intra-institutional ties and poignantly weak connections to physicians operating out of other healthcare centers.
INTRODUCTION Surgical training is traditionally a public hospital-based practice. At Epworth Private Hospital, Richmond, Victoria, there are three accredited surgical training positions and one fellowship position. We conducted a patient survey to review the patients' perspective of surgical trainees in private hospitals.   METHODS Over 6 weeks, 100 patients admitted under the surgical units with full-time surgical registrars were given a survey to complete in two parts on the training of surgeons in private hospitals.   RESULTS Seventy per cent of surveys were returned completed. Ninety per cent of respondents agreed that private hospitals should be involved in surgical training and 85.7% of patients were agreeable to having trainees involved in their operation. Only 1.4% of patients were not in agreement with surgical training in private and 8.6% of patients were neutral in their opinion.   CONCLUSION Our results clearly show that private hospital patients are generally favourably disposed to the presence and participation of surgical trainees in the private hospital setting.
BACKGROUND The purpose of credentialing is to ensure that clinicians provide safe, high-quality health-care services in accordance with good practice and legal requirements. This review assessed the institutional credentialing processes and governance structures required to support credentialing processes at an institutional, regional or health-care system level.   METHODS Searches of MEDLINE, EMBASE and PubMed were conducted. Additional grey literature searches were performed using the Google search engine and specific searches of government web sites were conducted. The inclusion criteria were developed a priori and standardized extraction of the information to appraise the research questions was conducted systematically.   RESULTS A total of 33 white papers were included in this systematic literature review: 18 were published in Australia, 1 in New Zealand, 10 in the United Kingdom, 2 in the United States of America and 2 in Canada. Four key principles were common throughout all studies included in this review: clear lines of responsibility for the credentialing process and supportive governance structures, clear standards for credentialing, a culture of continuous improvement and evaluation of credentialing process outcomes.   CONCLUSIONS No data were available to evaluate the relationship between the credentialing process and the safety and quality of health-care services or patient outcomes; and capturing such data is difficult because of the numerous factors that affect the relationship between credentialing, patient outcomes, and the safety and quality of health-care services. Consequently, developing methods to measure the effectiveness of credentialing processes represents an area for further research.
BACKGROUND In an era of increasing demands to provide high-quality health care, surgeons need an accurate preoperative risk assessment tool to facilitate informed decision-making for themselves and their patients. Emergency laparotomy procedures have a high risk profile, but the currently available risk-assessment models for emergency laparotomy are either unreliable (eg, small sample size or single center study), difficult to calculate preoperatively, or are specific to the geriatric population.   STUDY DESIGN The American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program database (2005 to 2009) was used to develop logistic regression models for 30-day mortality after emergency laparotomy. Two models were created, one with the knowledge of the postoperative diagnosis and one without. Models' calibration and discrimination were judged using the receiver operating characteristics curves and the Hosmer-Lemeshow test.   RESULTS There were 37,553 patients who had undergone emergency laparotomy, with a 14% mortality rate. The American Society of Anesthesiologists classification system, functional status, sepsis, and age were the variables most significantly associated with mortality. Patients older than 90 years of age, with an American Society of Anesthesiologists class V, septic shock, dependent functional status, and abnormal white blood cell count have a <10% probability of survival.   CONCLUSIONS The models developed in this study have a high discriminative ability to stratify the operative risk in a broad range of acute abdominal emergencies. These data will assist surgeons, patients, and their families in making end-of-life decisions in the face of medical futility with greater certainty when emergency surgery is being contemplated.
BACKGROUND Thyroidectomy in the pediatric population is often avoided due to perceived risks in children. With growing subspecialization and establishment of high volume endocrine surgery centers, the indications for thyroid surgery and extent of resection continue to change. We examined the evolution of pediatric thyroid surgery at a high volume tertiary medical center.   METHODS From our prospectively collected database, we reviewed medical records of individuals younger than 19 y who underwent thyroidectomy at our institution from 1994 to 2009. Patients were divided into two groups: (1) before establishment of our endocrine surgery center (1994-2001) and (2) since establishment of the center (2002-2009).   RESULTS We identified 78 operations performed on 74 patients with a median age of 15 (range 3-18) y. We found that the number of patients doubled in the later time period, with 26 operations in group 1 and 52 in group 2. The age of patients and percentage of females were similar between groups. After establishment of the endocrine surgery center, there was a significant increase in total thyroidectomies for all indications, including significantly more for benign disease. Overall, 9% of the patient population experienced transient complications, with no permanent complications or long-term sequelae.   CONCLUSIONS Pediatric thyroid surgery is extremely safe, especially when performed at a high volume endocrine surgery center. We more often select surgical treatment for benign disease and choose total thyroidectomy over limited resection. This may reflect increasing confidence in the safety and efficacy of surgery and reliability of thyroid hormone replacement.
BACKGROUND Determinants of career choice are numerous. The impact of teaching has not yet been reported.   OBJECTIVES The objectives were to assess determinants of career choice among DCEM 4 (sixth year) medical students at Paris Descartes University and Pierre-et-Marie-Curie University; and to determine the impact of teaching on career choice.   MATERIALS AND METHODS Prospective study based on an online survey, after the 2011 National Grading Examination, among 865 DCEM 4 students. Collection of socio-demographic data, commonly reported determinants of medical specialty choice, and the impact of the teaching on this choice.   RESULTS Two hundred and seven (24%) students (67% female) answered the survey. During their medical studies, students changed their mind on their career choice an average of 3 times (range 0-10). Nearly 60% of them made their final choice during the fifth year. Choices varied significantly between the beginning and end of the studies (P<0.0001), with interest in surgical and pediatric careers falling significantly (P<0.0001 and p=0.0003 respectively). At the time of expressing the final choice, surgical careers were mainly chosen by male students (19.8% of males vs. 9.9% of females, P=0.04), whereas medical careers were chosen equally by males and females (37.7% vs. 35.5%, P=0.75). The main determinant was interest in the specialty (96% of students), followed by perceived quality of life (56% of students). Teaching was a determinant for 74% of students, of whom 88% were influenced by the teaching they received during their clinical training. In 42% of cases, the teacher did not belong to the university corpus. In 10% of cases, students were discouraged from their choice by a teacher (a university professor in 50%).   DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION Our results highlight the impact of both teaching and the teacher on medical students' career choice. If career choice is now compelled in France by the 'careers law', teaching is more than ever an effective way of interesting students in specialties which might appear less attractive. At a time when the selection of candidates for hospital-university careers is mainly based on publications, this study calls for reflection on the evaluation of these candidates' teaching qualities.
Many surgical procedures performed in pediatric surgery have a slow learning curve, the volume of patients and the existence of complex diseases that require extensive training and surgical skill, have taken our service to create a global training program of experimental surgery. This program based on the simulation and training invasive procedures in real anatomical models, aims to educate our residents in a global and efficiently way in order to obtain an improvement of technical training, and increased patient safety result of experience and expertise wined in the experimental animal. This paper presents the main features, objectives and results obtained with this training program and seeks to promote the incorporation of simulation programs in live animal as an essential part of the training of pediatric surgery resident.
INTRODUCTION The paediatric surgeon should know the details of prenatal ultrasound diagnosis to participate in advising parents about the continuation of the pregnancy, and to plan the prenatal and postnatal treatment. Our objectives are: to determine the incidence of congenital anomalies detected with ultrasound in the 2nd trimester, the number of these diagnoses which is confirmed at birth and what is the usefulness of this test when advising parents.   PATIENTS AND METHODS We reviewed the prenatal ultrasound in 2nd trimester reports made from January 2005 to July 2009. We note the ultrasound findings, the maternal and gestational age. The evolution of anomalies of the fetuses and the number of spontaneous and volunteers abortions are noted. Finally, the diagnoses are checked in the newborns.   RESULTS 10,256 ultrasonographies are made in this period. 209 stories of pregnant women (2%), which present fetal pathology amenable to general surgical treatment, are accessible for study. These include: 182 urologic disorders (85.44%), 13 digestive disorders (6.1%), 6 thoracic disorders (2.8%), 6 multiple malformations (2.8%), 4 maxillofacial disorders (1.88%) a sacrococcygeal teratoma (0.47%), an umbilical cord cyst (0.47%), 7 pregnancies are spontaneous abortion and 7 are terminated voluntarily. 183 stories of newborns are reviewed, we can confirm 48 uropathies (26.37%), 4 digestive malformations (30.77%), 4 thoracic disorders (66.66%), 2 maxillofacial disorders (50%) and 1 teratoma.   CONCLUSIONS Ultrasonography in the 2nd trimester detects almost 2% of specific fetal malformations. False positives are common in all diagnostic groups. The number of abortions and the terminations of pregnancy is low, most of them are polymalformated fetuses. We believe that ultrasonography in the 20th week have low value to counsel the termination of pregnancy, because only 7 of the 160 terminations indicated in our hospital during the study period, correspond to fetuses with pathology detected in the 2nd trimester. We recognize the usefulness of this test but, the false positive and favorable developments in a high percentage of fetuses, make us to be cautious to advise the continuation of pregnancy and the indication of treatment.
After reviewing the history of smallpox throughout the world and of the techniques used to try to prevent it (variolation and then Jenner's vaccine), we describe the epidemics that reached in the Indian Ocean between 1729 and 1859. Alexandre Reydellet, a Navy surgeon under Naoleon, arrived in R챕union in 1815 and stayed until his death in 1859. His energetic vaccination campaigns and their results are depicted.
New tools from the web are a complete breakthrough in management of information. The aim of this paper is to present different resources in a friendly way, with apps and examples in the different phases of the knowledge management for the paediatric surgeon: search, filter, reception, classification, sharing, collaborative work and publication. We are assisting to a real revolution on how to manage knowledge and information. The main charateristics are: immediateness, social component, growing interaction, and easiness. Every physician has clinical questions and the Internet gives us more and more resources to make searchs easier. Along with them we need electronic resources to filter information of quality and to make easier transfer of knowledge to clinical practice. Cloud computing is on continuous development and makes possible sharing information with differents users and computers. The main feature of the apps from the Intenet is the social component, that makes possible interaction, sharing and collaborative work.
OBJECTIVE To evaluate factors associated with work-home conflicts (W-HCs) of US surgeons and their potential personal and professional consequences.   DESIGN Cross-sectional study.   PARTICIPANTS Members of the American College of Surgeons.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Burnout, depression, quality of life, alcohol use, career satisfaction, and career decisions (ie, reduce work hours or leave current practice).   RESULTS Of 7197 participating surgeons, 3754 (52.5%) had experienced a W-HC in the previous 3 weeks. On multivariate analysis, hours worked per week, having children, sex, and work location (Veterans Administration or academic center) were independently associated with an increased risk for W-HC (all P < .01), while some factors (increased age and subspecialty field) reduced the risk. Surgeons with a recent W-HC were more likely to have symptoms of burnout (36.9% vs 17.1%; P < .001), depression (50.9% vs 28.1%; P < .001), alcohol abuse/dependency (17.2% vs 14.4%; P = .003), and were less likely to recommend surgery as a career option to their children (46.0% vs 54.4%; P < .001). Work-home conflicts were also independently associated with surgeons reporting a moderate or higher likelihood of planning to reduce clinical work hours (odds ratio, 1.769) and leave their current practice in the next 24 months for a reason other than retirement (odds ratio, 1.706) after controlling for other personal and professional factors.   CONCLUSIONS Integrating personal and professional lives is a substantial challenge for US surgeons. Conflict in this balance appears to be a major factor in their decision to reduce work hours and/or move to a new practice, with potential substantive manpower implications for the surgical workforce.
OBJECTIVE To demonstrate that senior surgical residents would benefit from focused training by professionals with management expertise. Although managerial skills are recognized as necessary for the successful establishment of a surgical practice, they are not often emphasized in traditional surgical residency curricula. DESIGN Senior residents from all surgical subspecialties at McGill University were invited to participate in a 1-day management seminar. Precourse questionnaires aimed at evaluating the residents' perceptions of their own managerial knowledge and preparedness were circulated. The seminar was then given in the form of interactive lectures and case-based discussions. The questionnaires were readministered at the end of the course, along with an evaluation form. Precourse and postcourse data were compared using the Freeman-Halton extension of the Fisher exact test to determine statistical significance (P혻&lt;혻.05). SETTING  McGill University Health Centre in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. PARTICIPANTS A total of 43 senior residents. RESULTS Before the course, the majority of residents (27 of 43 [63%]) thought that management instruction only happened 'from time to time' in their respective programs. After the course, 15 residents (35%) felt that management topics were 'well addressed,' and 19 (44%) felt that management topics have been 'very well addressed' (P혻&lt;혻.01). Residents noted a significant improvement in their ability to perform the following skills after the course: giving feedback, delegating duties, coping with stress, effective learning, and effective teaching. On the ensemble of all managerial skills combined, 26 residents (60%) rated their performance as 'good' or 'excellent' after the course vs only 21 (49%) before the course (P혻=혻.02). Residents also noted a statistically significant improvement in their ability to perform the managerial duties necessary for the establishment of a surgical practice. CONCLUSIONS Surgical residency programs have the responsibility of preparing their residents for leadership and managerial roles in their future careers. An annual seminar serves as a starting point that could be built on for incorporating formal management training in surgical residency curricula.
Vascular surgery is a subspecialty that attracts future surgeons with challenging technical procedures and complex decision making. Despite its appeal, continued promotion of the field is necessary to recruit and retain the best and brightest candidates. Recruitment of medical students and residents may be limited by the lifestyle inherent to vascular surgery and the length of residency training. The young adults of the current applicant and resident pool differ from prior generations in their desire for hands-on mentoring, aspirations to affect change daily, a penchant for technology, and strong emphasis on work-life balance. Furthermore, the percentage of women pursuing careers in vascular surgery is not representative of the eligible workforce. Women are now the majority of graduates in all of higher education, and thus, vascular surgery may need to make a concerted effort to appeal to women in order to attract the most talented young professionals to the field. Recruiting strategies for both men and women of Generation Y should target a diverse group of potential candidates with an awareness of the unique characteristics and needs of this generation of rising surgeons.
BACKGROUND Developing an operating room conflict management educational program for surgeons requires a formal needs assessment and information about behaviors that represent effective conflict management.   METHODS Focus groups of circulating room nurses and surgeons were conducted at 5 participating centers. Participants responded to queries about conflict management training, conflict consequences, and effective conflict management behaviors. Transcripts of these sessions served as the data for this study.   RESULTS Educational preparation for conflict management was inadequate consisting of trial and error with observed behaviors. Conflict and conflict mismanagement had negative consequences for team members and team performance. Four behaviors emerge as representing effective ways for surgeons to manage conflict.   CONCLUSIONS There is a clear educational need for conflict management education. Target behaviors have now been identified that can provide the basis for a theoretically grounded and contextually adapted instruction and assessment of surgeon conflict management.
The aims of this study were to homogenize priority 1 surgical indications in Galician hospitals and propose a methodology designed to ensure that that the waiting times of priority 1 patients do not exceed 30 days. The priority 1 surgical indications of the distinct surgical services in Galicia were obtained and reviewed and were then sent for validation to the scientific societies. To reduce waiting times to less than 30 days, a procedure of periodic patient monitoring was established, with allocation of tasks to all the parties involved. Comparison of the mean waiting times before and after the implantation of periodic monitoring showed that this procedure reduced the mean waiting time by 55.7%. The mean waiting time was reduced in all the surgical specialities except one. In almost all of the surgical specialities, the procedure established reduced the number of patients on the waiting lists and the mean waiting time to less than 30 days.
BACKGROUND The 0+5 integrated vascular residency training pathway was established in 2006 to allow for trainee-focused training culminating in vascular surgery certification only. An early concern was whether enough medical students could be recruited directly into a vascular internship without the exposure that a general surgery residency provides. We hypothesized that programs that send a large percentage of their general surgical graduates to vascular fellowships have models that can be adapted to medical student recruitment.   METHODS Opinions and practices were sought from program directors through survey and from trainees taking the Vascular Surgery In-Training Examination.   RESULTS Eight programs were identified that sent 20% or more of their residents to vascular fellowships over the past 5 years (projecting a mean of 1.6 residents entering vascular fellowships in 2011). Almost all such programs have a formal mentoring system in place that match mentors to residents by interest, and almost all send residents to academic meetings before their senior year. Seventy-five percent of such programs have formal vascular lecture exposure to the first and second year medical student classes, offer clinical shadowing experiences, and have time on the vascular service during the MS3 clerkship; 83% offer a third- or fourth-year elective in vascular surgery. Vascular Surgery In-Training Examination responses were collected from 156 fellows and 13 '0+5' residents. Although fellows had initially been attracted to vascular surgery by the technical aspects of the field learned during residency (43%), the most important factor initially attracting medical students was an interested mentor (46%). However, the most important factor for both residents and students in making a final decision was the technical aspects of the field (66% and 63%, respectively).   CONCLUSIONS Although residents are automatically exposed to the field during residency, students can only be exposed to vascular surgery if a conscious effort is made by interested educators. Programs that send a high proportion of students and residents into vascular surgery tend to have planned exposure at the MS1 and MS2 levels, formal clinical rotations in place at the MS3 and MS4 levels, and pay personal attention to those who display interest. A guide is presented to help specifically plan these steps. Successful recruiting of students into a 0+5 integrated training program requires specific planning and action.
OBJECTIVES To characterize factors shaping surgery resident confidence and determine whether confidence is associated with future specialty training.   DESIGN Cross-sectional study.   SETTING Survey administered at the 2008 American Board of Surgery In-Service Training Examination.   PARTICIPANTS All categorical general surgery residents.   INTERVENTIONS National Study of Expectations and Attitudes of Residents in Surgery survey.   PARTICIPANTS reported demographics and level of agreement for 46 items regarding confidence, training, and professional plans.   MAIN OUTCOMES MEASURES Survey items 'My operating skill level is appropriate' and 'I may not feel confident enough to perform procedures independently before training completion.' We compared demographics and responses among residents who did/not feel confident.   RESULTS Response rate was 77.4%. Residents who were female, single, or without children and at a lower postgraduate year had less confidence in their operating skill, as did residents at larger, university-based programs, in the northeastern United States. Residents worried about competence were more likely to believe specialty training was needed (71.2% vs 60.2%; P < .001). After adjustment, residents dissatisfied with training were less likely to believe their skills were level appropriate (odds ratio, 0.13; P < .001) as were residents not comfortable asking for help (odds ratio, 0.48; P < .001). After adjustment, women were twice more likely than men to worry about competence after training; single residents were 1.36 times more likely than married residents to believe their skills were not level appropriate. Program location, type, and size remained associated with confidence, as did satisfaction and comfort asking for help. Residents worried about skills were more likely to plan for fellowship.   CONCLUSIONS Sex, marital status, children, and postgraduate year are predictors of confidence, as are program location, type, and size. Residency programs may target modifiable factors contributing to low surgical confidence.
The Surgical Council on Resident Education (SCORE) was officially formed by six surgical organizations in 2006 with the goal of improving general surgery residency training through the development of an explicit curriculum. As a result, SCORE has identified a group of 'essential' operations which believes that residents should be competent to perform by the end of training. Other 'complex' operations require additional training beyond residency. Currently, operative data submitted by residents suggest that there are significant gaps between ideal and actual operative experience. A particularly difficult challenge is to train residents to perform procedures that are rarely encountered.
BACKGROUND Data are lacking on the proportion of physicians who face malpractice claims in a year, the size of those claims, and the cumulative career malpractice risk according to specialty.   METHODS We analyzed malpractice data from 1991 through 2005 for all physicians who were covered by a large professional liability insurer with a nationwide client base (40,916 physicians and 233,738 physician-years of coverage). For 25 specialties, we reported the proportion of physicians who had malpractice claims in a year, the proportion of claims leading to an indemnity payment (compensation paid to a plaintiff), and the size of indemnity payments. We estimated the cumulative risk of ever being sued among physicians in high- and low-risk specialties.   RESULTS Each year during the study period, 7.4% of all physicians had a malpractice claim, with 1.6% having a claim leading to a payment (i.e., 78% of all claims did not result in payments to claimants). The proportion of physicians facing a claim each year ranged from 19.1% in neurosurgery, 18.9% in thoracic-cardiovascular surgery, and 15.3% in general surgery to 5.2% in family medicine, 3.1% in pediatrics, and 2.6% in psychiatry. The mean indemnity payment was $274,887, and the median was $111,749. Mean payments ranged from $117,832 for dermatology to $520,923 for pediatrics. It was estimated that by the age of 65 years, 75% of physicians in low-risk specialties had faced a malpractice claim, as compared with 99% of physicians in high-risk specialties.   CONCLUSIONS There is substantial variation in the likelihood of malpractice suits and the size of indemnity payments across specialties. The cumulative risk of facing a malpractice claim is high in all specialties, although most claims do not lead to payments to plaintiffs. (Funded by the RAND Institute for Civil Justice and the National Institute on Aging.).
BACKGROUND It is generally believed that certain patient characteristics (e.g., Body Mass Index and age) predict difficulty of intravenous cannulation in children, but there is not much literature evaluating these risk factors. In this study, we investigated predictive factors for success rate at first attempt and time needed for intravenous cannulation.   METHODS/MATERIALS In a prospective cohort study, we observed characteristics of intravenous cannulations in pediatric patients at the operating room (n = 1083) and the outpatient care unit (n = 178) of a tertiary referral pediatric hospital. Time to successful intravenous cannulation, success at first attempt, and potential predictors for difficult cannulation (age, gender, skin color, BMI or weight-to-age z-score, the child being awake or anesthetized, operator profession and surgical specialty) were recorded. Regression models were constructed to find significant predictors.   RESULTS Success at first attempt was 73% and 81%, respectively. In the operating room age, operator and surgical specialty were predictive for a successful first attempt and time to successful cannulation. No significant predictive factors were found for the outpatient care unit. BMI or weight-to-age was not related to difficult intravenous cannulation.   CONCLUSIONS This study shows that in one-fifth to one-third of the patients, intravenous cannulation required more than one attempt. It is difficult to predict with accuracy the difficulty of intravenous cannulation solely with easily obtainable patient characteristics.
PURPOSE To investigate the risk factors associated with work-related allergy-like symptoms in medical doctors.   METHODS Self-administered questionnaire survey and CAP test were conducted among medical school students in the 4th grade of their 6-year medical course in 1993-1996 and 1999-2001. Follow-up questionnaires were sent in 2004 to the graduates. These questionnaires enquired into personal and family history of allergic diseases, lifestyle, history of allergy-like symptoms including work-relatedness and occupational history as medical doctors. Relationships between allergy-like symptoms and relevant factors were evaluated by multivariate logistic regression analysis.   RESULTS Of 261 respondents at the follow-up survey, 139 (53.3%) and 54 (20.7%) had a history of any allergy-like symptoms and any work-related allergy-like symptoms, respectively. Female gender and family history of allergic diseases were significantly associated with any allergy-like symptoms. Personal history of allergic disease, exposure to domestic animals, eczema caused by rubber gloves, metallic accessories, or cosmetics during schooling days, and membership of the surgical profession were significant risk factors for work-related allergy-like symptoms. On the contrary, to work-related allergy-like symptoms, gender, age, and smoking status were not significantly related, and consumption of prepared foods was inversely related.   CONCLUSIONS Personal history of atopy and eczema induced by common goods and the history of keeping domestic animals may be predictors of work-related allergy-like symptoms in doctors. After graduation from medical school, physicians start with exposure to various allergens and irritants at work, which relate to work-related allergy-like symptoms, especially for surgeons.
OBJECTIVE To assess changes in general surgery workloads and practice patterns in the past decade.   BACKGROUND Nearly 80% of graduating general surgery residents pursue additional training in a surgical subspecialty. This has resulted in a shortage of general surgeons, especially in rural areas. The purpose of this study is to characterize the workloads and practice patterns of general surgeons versus certified surgical subspecialists and to compare these data with those from a previous decade.   METHODS The surgical operative logs of 4968 individuals recertifying in surgery 2007 to 2009 were reviewed. Data from 3362 (68%) certified only in Surgery (GS) were compared with 1606 (32%) with additional American Board of Medical Specialties certificates (GS+). Data from GS surgeons were also compared with data from GS surgeons recertifying 1995 to 1997. Independent variables were compared using factorial ANOVA.   RESULTS GS surgeons performed a mean of 533 짹 365 procedures annually. Women GS performed far more breast operations and fewer abdomen, alimentary tract and laparoscopic procedures compared to men GS (P < 0.001). GS surgeons recertifying at 10 years performed more abdominal, alimentary tract and laparoscopic procedures compared to those recertifying at 20 or 30 years (P < 0.001). Rural GS surgeons performed far more endoscopic procedures and fewer abdominal, alimentary tract, and laparoscopic procedures than urban counterparts (P < 0.001). The United States medical school graduates had similar workloads and distribution of operations to international medical graduates. Compared to 1995 to 1997, GS surgeons from 2007 to 2009 performed more procedures, especially endoscopic and laparoscopic. GS+ surgeons performed 15% to 33% of all general surgery procedures.   CONCLUSIONS GS practice patterns are heterogeneous; gender, age, and practice setting significantly affect operative caseloads. A substantial portion of general surgery procedures currently are performed by GS+ surgeons, whereas GS surgeons continue to perform considerable numbers of specialty operations. Reduced general surgery operative experience in GS+ residencies may negatively impact access to general surgical care. Similarly, narrowing GS residency operative experience may impair specialty operation access.
The goal of simulation-based medical education and training is to help trainees acquire and refine the technical and cognitive skills necessary to perform clinical procedures. When designers incorporate simulation into programs, their efforts should be in line with training needs, rather than technology. Designers of simulation-augmented surgical training programs, however, face particular problems related to identifying a framework that guides the curricular design activity to fulfill the particular requirements of such training programs. These problems include the lack of (1) an objective identification of training needs, (2) a systematic design methodology to match training objectives with simulation resources, (3) structured assessments of performance, and (4) a research-centered view to evaluate and validate systematically the educational effectiveness of the program. In this report, we present a process called 'Aim - FineTune - FollowThrough' to enable the connection of the identified problems to solutions, using frameworks from psychology, motor learning, education and experimental design.
Risk for a lawsuit for medical malpractice has unfortunately become part of physicians' daily professional activities, with a blowout in indemnity insurance premiums, especially in high-risk medical specialties. Common bile duct injury following laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a well-recognized and feared complication for surgeons because of its associated morbidity, and it also ranks among the leading sources of medical malpractice claims against surgeons in the world. The purpose of this article is to raise awareness within the medical community and in particular among specialist surgeons on the important threat they could be facing in terms of litigation in the event of an adverse surgical outcome following such a commonly performed procedure. There is a real need for open debate on this concerning topic, as the fear of lawsuits and exorbitant malpractice premiums are pushing a substantial number of medical professionals to practice defensive medicine, reflected by the avoidance of performing certain procedures or treating high-risk patients perceived to have higher litigation rates, or simply walking away from their current practices, creating a chronic shortage of specialized doctors in certain surgical areas.
OBJECTIVES To explore trends in the clinical activity of hospital specialists in English National Health Service (NHS) hospitals, and test the effect of contract reform.   DESIGN Retrospective secondary analysis of hospital episode statistics, describing trends and testing for a contract effect using multilevel interrupted time series analysis.   SETTING Ten surgical and medical specialties in English NHS hospitals from 1999 to 2009. Participants Hospital consultants on full time or maximum part-time English NHS hospitals.   INTERVENTION A new contract offered to NHS consultants in October 2003, with higher pay alongside job planning and appraisal.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Inpatient finished consultant episodes (FCEs) per consultant per month, with and without accounting for case-mix differences.   RESULTS In most specialties there was a statistically significant downward trend in FCEs per consultant per month. On average in the surgical specialties, FCEs reduced by 0.14 per month (95% CI -0.16 to -0.11) and in medicine there was a smaller reduction of 0.08 FCEs per month (95% CI -0.1 to -0.06). NHS patients symptoms have increased in severity over time, and the downward trend is reduced after case-mix-adjustment, and reversed in general and geriatric medicine. The effect of the contract on clinical activity was minimal. In five specialties there was no statistically significant effect, but in five specialties there was a statistically significant negative effect.   CONCLUSIONS Consultant clinical activity, as measured by FCEs per month, has shown a general downward trend from 1999 to 2009. The consultant contract was not associated with an increase in consultant clinical activity rates.
BACKGROUND A review of theatre activity in all Health Service Executive (HSE) hospitals in Cork and Kerry in 2008 required a manual extraction of theatre activity data from largely paper-based log books. A key data management recommendation suggested that 'a standardised computerised theatre log book system be developed in all hospitals in the region'. HSE (2010) Reconfiguration of health services for Cork and Kerry봳heatre utilisation review. ISBN 978-1-906218-54-6.   MATERIALS AND METHODS In 2010, a computerised minimum dataset project group conducted a telephone survey of theatre managers nationally to determine the methods of recording theatre activity across publicly funded hospital theatres in Ireland.   RESULTS Sixty-one percent of acute hospitals nationally did not have a computerised theatre register. Of those who did, 15 % had a fully electronic system, 13 % had a dual paper-based and electronic system and 7 % had a single surgical specialty system. The HSE South region was significantly deprived of an electronic operating system in comparison to other HSE regions. While the total number of fully computerised hospital theatres remained small,they still dealt with the greater number of hospital discharges nationally.   CONCLUSIONS The roll-out of the productive operating theatre programme is facilitating the implementation of operating room management systems on a phased basis nationally. This will greatly facilitate audit, research,patient care and theatre efficiencies.
INTRODUCTION The DV-Trainer (a virtual reality [VR] simulator) (Mimic Technologies, Inc., Seattle, WA) is one of several different robotic surgical training methods. We designed a prospective study to determine whether VR training could improve da Vinci(짰) Surgical System (Intuitive Surgical, Inc., Sunnyvale, CA) performance.   SUBJECTS AND METHODS Surgeons (n=12) were enrolled using a randomized protocol. Groups 1 (VR training) and 2 (control) participated in VR and da Vinci exercises. Participants' time and moving distance were combined to determine a composite score: VR index=1000/(time횞moving distance). The da Vinci exercises included needle control and suturing. Procedure time and error were measured. A composite index (DV index) was computed and used to measure da Vinci competency. After the initial trial with both the VR and da Vinci exercises, only Group 1 was trained with the VR simulator following our institutional curriculum for 3 weeks. All members of both groups then participated in the second trial of the VR and da Vinci exercises and were scored in the same way as in the initial trial.   RESULTS In the initial trial, there was no difference in the VR index (Group 1 versus Group 2, 8.9 짹 3.3 versus 9.4 짹 3.7; P=.832) and the DV index (Group 1 versus Group 2, 3.85 짹 0.73 versus 3.66 짹 0.65; P=.584) scores between the two groups. At the second time point, Group 1 showed increased VR index scores in comparison with Group 2 (19.3 짹 4.5 versus 9.7 짹 4.1, respectively; P=.001) and improved da Vinci performance skills as measured by the DV index (5.80 짹 1.13 versus 4.05 짹 1.03, respectively; P=.028) and by suturing time (7.1 짹 1.54 minutes versus 10.55 짹 1.93 minutes, respectively; P=.018).   CONCLUSIONS We found that VR simulator training can improve da Vinci performance. VR practice can result in an early plateau in the learning curve for robotic practice under controlled circumstances.
Within the Homans family is a display of duty to country and service to humanity that is as old as our country, and the contributions of this American family should not go unappreciated. In addition to the Homans' sign, 5 generations of John Homans have contributed much to our current understanding and practice of surgery. Herein we briefly outline the contributions that the Homans family has made to American surgery.
General surgery has become increasingly fragmented into subspecialties and diseases previously treated by general surgeons are now managed by 'specialists'. The Resident Education Committee of the Society for Surgery of the Alimentary Tract (SSAT) has reviewed the history of surgical training and factors that have contributed to this evolution to subsepcialization. As it is unlikely that this paradigm shift is reversible, a clear understanding of the contributing factors is essential. Herein, we present a timeline and taxonomy of forces in this evolution to subspecialization.
As surgery grew to become a respected medical profession in the eighteenth century, medical ethics emerged as a response to the growing need to protect patients and maintain the public's trust in physicians. The early influences of John Gregory and Thomas Percival were instrumental in the formulation of patient-centered medical ethics. In the late nineteenth century, the modern surgical advances of anesthesia and antisepsis created the need for a discipline of ethics specific to surgery in order to confront new and evolving ethical issues. One of the founding initiatives of the American College of Surgeons in 1913 was to eliminate unethical practices such as fee-splitting and itinerant surgery. As surgery continued to advance in the era of solid organ transplantation and minimally invasive surgery in the latter half of the twentieth century, surgical innovation and conflict of interest have emerged as important ethical issues moving forward into the twenty-first century. Surgical ethics has evolved into a distinct branch of medical ethics, and the core of surgical ethics is the surgeon-patient relationship and the surgeon's responsibility to advance and protect the well-being of the patient.
There is overlap between general, abdominal and vascular surgery on one hand and plastic surgery on the other hand, e.g., in hernia surgery, in particular, recurrent hernia, reconstruction of the abdominal wall or defect closure after abdominal or vascular surgery. Bariatric operations involve both special fields too. Plastic surgeons sometimes use skin and muscle compartments of the abdominal wall for reconstruction at other regions of the body. This article aims to i) give an overview about functional, anatomic and clinical aspects as well as the potential of surgical interventions in plastic surgery. General/abdominal/vascular surgeons can benefit from this in their surgical planning and competent execution of their own surgical interventions with limited morbidity/lethality and an optimal, in particular, functional as well as aesthetic outcome, ii) support the interdisciplinary work of general/abdominal/vascular and plastic surgery, and iii) provide a better understanding of plastic surgery and its profile of surgical interventions and options.
INTRODUCTION Numerous factors influence the career choices of undergraduate medical students, although little work has focused specifically on the surgical specialties. We aimed to investigate medical students' early experiences of surgery along with the motivators and barriers to selecting a surgical career.   METHODS All final-year medical students were invited to participate in an online survey. A range of quantitative data (expressed as a proportion of total respondents) and qualitative data (grouped and thematically analyzed) were collected to evaluate students' attitudes to careers in surgery and potential influences on these.   RESULTS A total of 482 students from 20 medical schools throughout England and Wales completed the survey. Overall, 91% of respondents had work experience before medical school, in which the greatest satisfaction was reported in the 21% who undertook placements in surgery. In addition, 58% expressed a desire to spend time working abroad and 59% to undertake a period of research; the primary motivator for both was career/professional development. Surgery was the most popular career choice amongst respondents. The 2 most important factors in decisions pertaining to their career were reported as interest in the specialty and work-life balance. Students draw career advice from numerous sources, most commonly mentors (49%) and student surgical societies (46%). Only 1% wanted more website information, with personal contact being paramount.   DISCUSSION It is vital for the continuing strength of the profession and the quality of surgery for the public that we continue to attract the best undergraduates into careers in surgery. Surgeons of all grades must be aware that how they are perceived by students affects future career choices. Early experiences of surgery are fundamental in assisting medical students to make informed career choices.
In today's ever-globalizing climate, the academic sector bears a certain responsibility to incorporate global health opportunities into residency training programs. The worldwide unmet surgical need has been growing; it has been estimated by the World Health Organization that by 2030, surgical diseases will contribute significantly to the burden of global health. International electives (IE) offered during training may partially address this growing need. In addition, it can help trainees develop a heightened awareness of the social determinants of health in resource-limited areas, as well as gain insight into different cultures, health beliefs, and pathologic conditions. General surgery residency programs that offer IE may also stand to benefit by attracting a broader applicant pool, as well as by having the ability to train residents to rely less upon expensive tests and equipment, while further developing residents' physical examination and communications skills. The challenges that IE pose for trainees include the required adaptation to an environment devoid of an advanced and modern medical system, and a difficulty in learning a new language, culture, and local customs. However, IE may also be hazardous for home institutions as they may drain local resources and take limited educational experiences away from local providers. Despite the active promotion of international volunteerism by the American Board of Surgery, few surgery residency programs offer IE as part of the curriculum, with cost and supervision being the major obstacles to overcome. Consequently, it may be difficult to generate American surgical leaders in international health. In this article, we outline the steps needed to bring IE to an institution and how general surgery residency programs can help bridge the gap between surgeons in high-income countries and the growing surgical needs of the international community.
IMPORTANCE A protected block curriculum (PBC) with postcurriculum examinations for all surgical residents has been provided to assure coverage of core curricular topics. Biannual assessment of resident competency will soon be required by the Next Accreditation System.   OBJECTIVE To identify opportunities for early medical knowledge assessment and interventions, we examined whether performance in postcurriculum multiple-choice examinations (PCEs) is predictive of performance in the American Board of Surgery In-Training Examination (ABSITE) and clinical service competency assessments.   DESIGN Retrospective single-institutional education research study.   SETTING Academic general surgery residency program.   PARTICIPANTS A total of 49 surgical residents.   INTERVENTION Data for PGY1 and PGY2 residents participating in the 2008 to 2012 PBC are included. Each resident completed 6 PCEs during each year.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES The results of 6 examinations were correlated to percentage-correct ABSITE scores and clinical assessments based on the 6 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education core competencies. Individual ABSITE performance was compared between PGY1 and PGY2. Statistical analysis included multivariate linear regression and bivariate Pearson correlations.   RESULTS A total of 49 residents completed the PGY1 PBC and 36 completed the PGY2 curriculum. Linear regression analysis of percentage-correct ABSITE and PCE scores demonstrated a statistically significant correlation between the PGY1 PCE 1 score and the subsequent PGY1 ABSITE score (p = 0.037, 棺 = 0.299). Similarly, the PGY2 PCE 1 score predicted performance in the PGY2 ABSITE (p = 0.015, 棺 = 0.383). The ABSITE scores correlated between PGY1 and PGY2 with statistical significance, r = 0.675, p = 0.001. Performance on the 6 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education core competencies correlated between PGY1 and PGY2, r = 0.729, p = 0.001, but did not correlate with PCE scores during either years.   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Within a mature PBC, early performance in a PGY1 and PGY2 PCE is predictive of performance in the respective ABSITE. This information can be used for formative assessment and early remediation of residents who are predicted to be at risk for poor performance in the ABSITE.
BACKGROUND The American Board of Surgery In-Training Examination (ABSITE) is a predictor of resident performance on the general surgery-qualifying examination and plays a role in obtaining competitive fellowships. A learning management system (LMS) permits the delivery of a structured curriculum that appeals to the modern resident owing to the ease of accessibility and all-in-one organization. This study hypothesizes that trainees using a structured surgeon-directed LMS will achieve improved ABSITE scores compared with those using an unstructured approach to the examination.   STUDY DESIGN A multidisciplinary print and digital review course with practice questions, review textbooks, weekly reading assignments, and slide and audio reviews integrated within an online LMS was made available to postgraduate year (PGY)-3 and PGY-4 residents in 2008 and 2009. Surveys were emailed requesting ABSITE scores to compare outcomes in those trainees that used the course with those who used an unstructured approach. Statistical analysis was conducted via descriptive statistics and Pearson chi-square with p < 0.05 deemed statistically significant.   RESULTS Surveys were mailed to 508 trainees. There was an 80% (408) response rate. Residents who used structured approaches in both the years achieved the highest scores, followed by those who adopted a structured approach in PGY-4. The residents using an unstructured approach in both the years showed no significant improvement.   CONCLUSION Residents who used a structured LMS performed significantly better than their counterparts who used an unstructured approach. A properly constructed online education curriculum has the potential to improve ABSITE scores.
BACKGROUND Meyer and Land (2003) describe threshold concepts as being 'akin to a portal, opening up a new and previously inaccessible way of thinking about something.' As a consequence, threshold concepts have a transformational potential and may lead to an associated change in identity. The successful completion of pediatric surgical training in the United Kingdom is a lengthy and complex professional journey in which trainees emerge as consultants with a professional identity. We sought to explore how 'threshold concepts' applied to pediatric surgical training with a view to identifying elements that were 'troublesome.'   METHODS Semistructured interviews were conducted. Transcripts were generated from audio recordings and thematically analyzed by the authors. Constant comparison was used to refine themes. Participants were purposively recruited across all years of training. A total of 8 pediatric surgical trainees participated in the study. Approval from obtained from the Human Research Ethics committee.   RESULTS Although there is overlap between themes, analysis revealed 'troublesome' areas of training related to knowledge (breadth and rarity of some conditions), clinical judgment (shifting expectation of independence), technical skills (accessing opportunities), transitions between roles (increasing responsibility and remoteness of support), relationships with trainers, and the effect of negative experiences.   CONCLUSIONS Viewing trainees' experiences of surgical training through the lens of 'threshold concepts' provides insight to the importance of viewing the curriculum in a holistic way. Negative experiences in training were an important catalyst for development, inducing a fundamental change in perception, which might be characterized as a rupture of a 'meaning frame.' Trainees in pediatric surgery can be viewed as moving to a mature specialist identity via a transitional state-liminality, from entry into specialist training.
BACKGROUND In Central Europe, patients with severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) are frequently treated by trauma surgeons rather than neurosurgeons. The objective of this study was to compare outcomes of patients with TBI by trauma surgeons or neurosurgeons. This study is a retrospective analysis of prospectively collected data.   METHODS Between January 2001 and December 2005, 10 centers enrolled 311 operatively treated patients with severe TBI and no significant other injuries into observational studies. Data on accident, treatment, and outcomes were collected. Using the Glasgow Outcome Scale, 1-year outcomes were classified as 'favorable' (scores 5 and 4) or 'unfavorable' (scores <4). Data from patients operated by trauma surgeons ('group T') were compared with those from patients operated by neurosurgeons ('group N') using univariate and multivariate statistics. The scores published by Hukkelhoven et al. were used to estimate expected rates of death and unfavorable outcomes.   RESULTS There were 191 patients in group N and 120 in group T. There were no significant differences regarding age, sex, and trauma mechanisms between the two groups. Patients from group N had significantly higher trauma severity. The observed versus expected hospital mortality ratio was 0.84 for group N and 0.97 for group T (p = 0.051). One-year outcome was better in group T (28% vs. 19% good recovery, 1.7% vs. 9.4% vegetative status; p = 0.017), whereas mortality was not different (43% in both groups). Multivariate analysis revealed that outcomes were influenced by age and severity of TBI, whereas surgical specialty and treatment factors had no effects.   CONCLUSION With respect to operatively treated patients with TBI, trauma surgeons and neurosurgeons achieve comparable results.   LEVEL OF EVIDENCE II.
INTRODUCTION Timely access to acute surgery is a worldwide issue and New Zealand is similarly affected. Auckland City Hospital is one of the largest metropolitan public hospitals in New Zealand where more than 60 % of surgical admissions fit into the acute category. In January 2009, an Acute Surgical Unit (ASU) was set up to improve acute surgical flow. Key performance indicators (KPIs) were identified as valuable tools in evaluating ASU service performance. Our goals were to describe the current acute patient pathway, present the early trend of KPIs for the ASU and determine whether an impact has been made on acute surgical patients.   METHODS A retrospective review of patients admitted with acute general surgical conditions from January 2008 (pre-ASU) to October 2010 was performed. Patient data were identified through hospital electronic records. KPIs assessed included: (1) time to assess referred patients from the emergency department (ED) and from GPs [where patient assessment occurs in the assessment and planning unit (APU)]; (2) preoperative length of stay (LOS[PO]); (3) length of stay of nonadmitted patients (LOS[NA]); (4) case volume 'in h' (0730-1730) versus 'after h'; and (5) readmission rate. Statistical analysis was performed with one-way ANOVA, regression, and (2) tests.   RESULTS Results show a reduction of mean time from referral to assessment from 2.28 to 1.6 h in the ED (p  0.001). Patients are seen in APU after GP referral sooner as well as the time from referral to assessment reducing from 2 to 1.76 h (p < 0.001). The LOS[PO] has not changed significantly overall (34.58 vs. 34.88 h, p = not significant [NS]). However, there are encouraging signs in high-volume procedures, such as appendicectomy. The mean LOS[PO] for appendicectomy was 7.81 h but is now 6.53 h (p  0.005). The LOS[NA] has decreased from 15.23 to 9.48 h (p < 0.005). Since the development of the ASU, the number of cases operated on 'in hours' is increasing with a corresponding decrease in 'after hours' operating.   CONCLUSIONS Our KPIs demonstrate an early positive trend of facilitating acute patient flow. There is minimal difference between pre- and post-ASU LOS[PO].The causes are likely multifactorial, including increased case volume displacing minor cases of lesser urgency, lack of operating staff, and shortage of hospital beds in winter months. This study supports the utility of ASU in facilitating patient flow in a NZ metropolitan public hospital.
BACKGROUND Information about national trends and predictors of malpractice payments can constructively add to the hotly debated topic of medical malpractice. We sought to evaluate predictors of surgical malpractice payments and to explore national trends.   STUDY DESIGN Retrospective analysis of surgery-related malpractice payments using the National Practitioner Data Bank from 1990 to 2006. Payments were adjusted to 2006 dollars. We evaluated predictors of payment size and large payments (defined as those >$1 million). Statutory law in the states demonstrating significant predictive values was analyzed.   RESULTS In total, 58,518 surgical malpractice payments met inclusion criteria. Patients were predominantly female (62%) and inpatient (63%), with a mean age of 42 years. The number of payments decreased and payment sums increased during the study period. Median payment was $132,915 (95th percentile $983,263). Claims most frequently cited improper performance (42%). Patient outcomes were the strongest predictor of both payment size and likelihood of a large payment. Children younger than 10 years old were 70% more likely to receive a large payment (p = 0.005); and patients older than 70 years were 80% less likely (p < 0.0005). Large variations across states were seen for both payment size and likelihood of large payment. The likelihood of reaching out-of-court settlement did not appear to be correlated with known factors.   CONCLUSIONS Nationwide, surgical malpractice claims show rising payment amounts. Patient outcomes are the strongest predictor of payment size. Considerable variation in payment size between states suggests a profound impact from local legal environments.
OBJECTIVE Work-hour restrictions have had a profound impact on surgical training. However, little is known of how work-hour restrictions may affect the future practice patterns of current surgical residents. The purpose of this study is to compare the anticipated career practice patterns of surgical residents who are training within an environment of work-hour restrictions with the current practice of faculty surgeons.   DESIGN An electronic survey was sent to all surgery residents and faculty at 2 Canadian university-affiliated medical centers. The survey consisted of questions regarding expected (residents) or current (faculty) practice patterns.   RESULTS A total of 149 residents and 125 faculty members completed the survey (50.3% and 52.3% response rates, respectively). A greater proportion of males were in the faculty cohort than in the resident group (77.6% vs 62.4%, p = 0.0003). More faculty than residents believed that work-hour restrictions have a negative impact on both residency education (40.8% vs 20.8%, p = 0.008) and preparation for a surgical career (56.8% vs 19.5%, p < 0.0001). Compared with current faculty, residents plan to take less call (p < 0.0003), work fewer days of the week (p < 0.0001), are more likely to limit their duty hours on postcall days (p = 0.009), and take parental leave (p = 0.02) once in practice. Male and female residents differed somewhat in their responses in that more female residents plan to limit their postcall duty hours (55.4% vs 36.5%, p = 0.009) and to take a parental leave (51.8% vs 16.1%, p < 0.0001) compared with their male resident colleagues.   CONCLUSIONS Current surgical residents expect to adopt components of resident work-hour guidelines into their surgical practices after completing their residency. These practice patterns will have surgical workforce implications and might require larger surgical groups and reconsideration of resource allocation.
OBJECTIVES Practicing within the Halstedian model of surgical education, academic surgeons serve dual roles as physicians to their patients and educators of their trainees. Despite this significant responsibility, few surgeons receive formal training in educational theory to inform their practice. The goal of this work was to gain an understanding of how master surgeons approach teaching uncommon and highly complex operations and to determine the educational constructs that frame their teaching philosophies and approaches.   DESIGN Individuals included in the study were queried using electronically distributed open-ended, structured surveys. Responses to the surveys were analyzed and grouped using grounded theory and were examined for parallels to concepts of learning theory.   SETTING Academic teaching hospital.   PARTICIPANTS Twenty-two individuals identified as master surgeons.   RESULTS Twenty-one (95.5%) individuals responded to the survey. Two primary thematic clusters were identified: global approach to teaching (90.5% of respondents) and approach to intraoperative teaching (76.2%). Many of the emergent themes paralleled principles of transfer learning theory outlined in the psychology and education literature. Key elements included: conferring graduated responsibility (57.1%), encouraging development of a mental set (47.6%), fostering or expecting deliberate practice (42.9%), deconstructing complex tasks (38.1%), vertical transfer of information (33.3%), and identifying general principles to structure knowledge (9.5%).   CONCLUSIONS Master surgeons employ many of the principles of learning theory when teaching uncommon and highly complex operations. The findings may hold significant implications for faculty development in surgical education.
BACKGROUND In surgical education, there is a need for educational performance evaluation tools that yield reliable and valid data. This paper describes the development and validation of robust evaluation tools that provide surgeons with insight into their clinical teaching performance. We investigated (1) the reliability and validity of 2 tools for evaluating the teaching performance of attending surgeons in residency training programs, and (2) whether surgeons' self evaluation correlated with the residents' evaluation of those surgeons.   MATERIALS AND METHODS We surveyed 343 surgeons and 320 residents as part of a multicenter prospective cohort study of faculty teaching performance in residency training programs. The reliability and validity of the SETQ (System for Evaluation Teaching Qualities) tools were studied using standard psychometric techniques. We then estimated the correlations between residents' and surgeons' evaluations.   RESULTS The response rate was 87% among surgeons and 84% among residents, yielding 2625 residents' evaluations and 302 self evaluations. The SETQ tools yielded reliable and valid data on 5 domains of surgical teaching performance, namely, learning climate, professional attitude towards residents, communication of goals, evaluation of residents, and feedback. The correlations between surgeons' self and residents' evaluations were low, with coefficients ranging from 0.03 for evaluation of residents to 0.18 for communication of goals.   CONCLUSIONS The SETQ tools for the evaluation of surgeons' teaching performance appear to yield reliable and valid data. The lack of strong correlations between surgeons' self and residents' evaluations suggest the need for using external feedback sources in informed self evaluation of surgeons.
OBJECTIVES To determine how programs are teaching and assessing procedural skills, and their perceived success.   DESIGN Cross-sectional survey.   SETTING Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) approved training programs in pediatric urology and colorectal surgery.   PARTICIPANTS Program directors and recent graduates (2007-2009).   RESULTS Thirty-nine program directors (60%), and 57 graduates (64%) responded; 89.5% of graduates and 94.9% of program directors felt training occurred successfully for the procedures that trainees were performing in their present practice. Nearly 90% of trainees and all program directors reported that there was no formal assessment of procedural competency at the beginning of training, although 66.7% of program directors reported that trainees were assessed 'informally.' Both program directors and trainees reported dialogue with faculty was the most frequent method used in preparing for operative procedures. Other methods (textbook/atlas, journals, web-based programs, videos) were used less frequently. Program directors with shorter tenure were more likely to use web-based and video methods; younger trainees were less likely to use textbooks/atlases. Faculty feedback on clinical decision-making and postprocedural review were perceived by both program directors and trainees as the most effective assessment methods for improving performance; however, trainees were more likely than program directors to report that postprocedure reviews were not included in their training (15.8% vs 9%, p = 0.045). Patient outcomes, written feedback from peers, and self-assessment were included in most programs, but valued less. Simulation was used in only about half the programs and was valued more highly by trainees than program directors (p = 0.011).   CONCLUSIONS Training in procedural proficiency was viewed as successful by both program directors and graduates. Dialogue with, assessment by, and feedback from faculty were frequently used and most valued; stressing the importance of the facilitator role of faculty in the education of the trainee. These findings provide guidance for the development of newer methods of teaching and assessment.
The growing appreciation of the need to adopt an evidence-based approach to teaching and assessment has led to a demand for faculty who are well versed in best practices in education. Surgeons with interest and expertise in instruction, curriculum development, educational research, and evaluation can have an important impact on the educational mission of a department of surgery. The increased fervor for accountability in education together with the challenges imposed by accreditation agencies and hospitals has made educational leadership responsibilities more time consuming and complex. In response to this, an increasing number of department chairs created Vice Chair for Education positions to support clerkship and program directors and ensure the department's education mission statement is fulfilled.
Academic surgeons play an instrumental role in the training of our medical students and surgical residents. Although volunteer faculty often have an important role in the clinical development of surgeons-in-training, the tasks of curricular development, structured didactic sessions, professional advising, research sponsorship, and mentoring at all levels fall to the academic surgeon. Historically, the career advancement path for an academic physician favored grant acquisition and scholarly publication. Broader definitions of scholarship have emerged, along with corresponding modifications in academic award systems that allow advancement in faculty rank based on a surgeon's educational efforts.
This will most likely be the first time through the promotion and tenure process for the faculty member. The faculty member is responsible for meeting with the department chair and/or division chief on a regular basis to determine if she is on the right time line to successfully achieve promotion to associate professor. A physician will begin seriously preparing her portfolio for promotion to associate professor about 5 to 6 years out of training, at which time she will have some considerable experience running a practice and managing her time. However, the planning process for promotion should begin immediately upon starting the first academic position.
BACKGROUND Positive surgical role models influence medical students to pursue a career in surgery. However, the perception by role models of their own effectiveness has yet to be examined. In this study, we evaluated the influence of surgical role models on medical student career choice, and how these role models perceive themselves.   METHODS We distributed a voluntary and anonymous survey to third-year medical students, general surgery resident applicants, general surgery residents, and attending surgery faculty during the 2010-2011 academic year. We performed statistical analysis using the chi-square and Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel tests (P < 0.05 was significant).   RESULTS Medical students and resident applicants agreed that faculty and residents are important in shaping the career paths of students. The applicants were more likely to agree than were students that clerkship role models (P = 0.0049) and mentors (P = 0.0035) affected their interest in surgery. The applicants were also more likely to agree than the students that attending surgeons (P = 0.0004), senior (P = 0.0019) and junior (P = 0.0028) surgery residents served as positive role models. Although the surgical faculty and residents agreed with the students that each level of the surgical team served as positive role models, they did not agree as strongly with the students that they have an important role in shaping students' career path (P < 0.0001).   CONCLUSIONS Surgical faculty and residents serve as positive role models for medical students. They have an essential role in shaping students' career paths and should be more cognizant of their influence, which may draw a student toward or lead them away from the field of surgery.
BACKGROUND Patient reported outcome measures (PROMs) are increasingly being used to compare the performance of health care providers. Our objectives were to determine the relative frequency of use of different metrics that can be derived from PROMs, explore clinicians' and patients' views of the options available, and make recommendations.   METHODS First a rapid review of the literature on metrics derived from two generic (EQ-5D and EQ-VAS) and three disease-specific (Oxford Hip Score; Oxford Knee Score; Aberdeen Varicose Vein Questionnaire) PROMs was conducted. Next, the findings of the literature review were mapped onto our typology of metrics to determine their relative frequency of use, Finally, seven group meetings with surgical clinicians (n = 107) and six focus groups with patients (n = 45) were held which were audio-taped, transcribed and analysed thematically.   RESULTS Only nine studies (9.3% of included papers) used metrics for comparing providers. These were derived from using either the follow-up PROM score (n = 3) or the change in score as an outcome (n = 5), both adjusted for pre-intervention score. There were no recorded uses of the proportion reaching a specified ('good') threshold and only two studies used the proportion reaching a minimally important difference (MID).Surgical clinicians wanted multiple outcomes, with most support expressed for the mean change in score, perceiving it to be more interpretable; there was also some support for the MID. For patients it was apparent that rather than the science behind these measures, the most important aspects were the use of language that would make the metrics personally meaningful and linking the metric to a familiar scale.   CONCLUSIONS For clinicians the recommended metrics are the mean change in score and the proportion achieving a MID, both adjusted for pre-intervention score. Both need to be clearly described and explained. For patients we recommend the proportion achieving a MID or proportion achieving a significant improvement in hip function, both adjusted for pre-intervention score.
INTRODUCTION The popularity of surgical specialties is declining amongst Canadian medical students. Limited early exposure of students to surgery and minor involvement of surgeons in preclerkship education are barriers to creating interest in the field. Although many informal observerships and interest groups exist, there are no structured programs in Canada that offer preclerkship medical students a comprehensive exposure to surgery.   METHODS Twenty first-year medical students participated in the Surgical Exploration and Discovery (SEAD) Program. SEAD is a pilot project at the University of Toronto providing a unique combination of (1) observerships, (2) informal discussions on surgical careers, and (3) hands-on simulation workshops across all 7 direct-entry specialties within the Department of Surgery. All participants underwent pretraining and posttraining evaluation of learning through a paper-based knowledge test and all completed a structured survey on the benefit of the course.   RESULTS Comparison of test scores revealed an overall significant improvement in learning (p<0.0001). The improvement in test scores was seen in the knowledge of all 3 components of the course (p<0.0001). Qualitative evaluation revealed a positive student experience, with 100% of students indicating that SEAD helped them identify new interests in surgical subspecialties. Finally, 100% of students stated that they would recommend the program to incoming medical students.   CONCLUSION The SEAD Program successfully improves preclerkship students' knowledge of surgical principles, understanding of a career in surgery, and basic surgical skills. Participation in the program also positively influenced their interest in pursuing a career in surgery. Programs such as SEAD may be offered to preclerkship medical students to improve their exposure to surgery at this level of training and to enhance perspectives toward surgical careers.
INTRODUCTION Quality and safety concerns have always been the impetus for evaluating surgical competence. This paper provides a focused overview of key historical events that lead to the development and implementation of surgical training standards and competency assessments in the United States.   METHODS Focused review of surgical literature.   RESULTS The following events were found to correlate with the development and implementation of training standards and competency assessments: (i) The Flexner Report issued in 1910; (ii) The American Medical Association's 1928 endorsement of the 'Essentials of Approved Residencies and Fellowships'; and (iii) The formation of several major surgical organizations - American College of Surgeons (1913), American Board of Surgery (1937), Residency Review Committee for Surgery (1950) and Association of Program Directors in Surgery (1966).   DISCUSSION The process by which competence is assessed in the US surgical training programmes is multifactorial and heavily linked to the structure and function of several national organizations in surgery and medicine.
BACKGROUND Specialized procedures such as hepatectomy are performed by a variety of specialties in surgery. We aimed to determine whether variation exists among utilization of resources, cost, and patient outcomes by specialty, surgeon case volume, and center case volume for hepatectomy.   METHODS We queried centers (n = 50) in the University Health Consortium database from 2007-2010 for patients who underwent elective hepatectomy in which specialty was designated general surgeon (n = 2685; 30%) or specialist surgeon (n = 6277; 70%), surgeon volume was designated high volume (>38 cases annually) and center volume was designated high volume (>100 cases annually). We then stratified our cohort by primary diagnosis, defined as primary tumor (n = 2241; 25%), secondary tumor (n = 5466; 61%), and benign (n = 1255; 14%).   RESULTS Specialist surgeons performed more cases for primary malignancy (primary 26% versus 15%) while general surgeons operated more for secondary malignancies (67% versus 61%) and benign disease (18% versus 13%). Specialists were associated with a shorter total length of stay (LOS) (5 d versus 6 d; P < 0.01) and lower in-hospital morbidity (7% versus 11%; P < 0.01). Patients treated by high volume surgeons or at high volume centers were less likely to die than those treated by low volume surgeons or at low volume centers, (OR 0.55; 95% CI 0.33-0.89) and (OR 0.44; 95% CI 0.13-0.56).   CONCLUSIONS Surgical specialization, surgeon volume and center volume may be important metrics for quality and utilization in complex procedures like hepatectomy. Further studies are necessary to link direct factors related to hospital performance in the changing healthcare environment.
OBJECTIVE To evaluate the effectiveness of training in surgical techniques in pig feet during medical school.   METHODS We conducted a cross-sectional study with 87 volunteer medical students from different graduation semesters, who attended a basic workshop for incisions, sutures, biopsies, flaps, grafts, under direct supervision. Pre and post-training self-administered questionnaires were used.   RESULTS The teaching of sutures, biopsies and ear correction was effective for learning of the minimal skills required for the proposed techniques (p <0.005), as well as excisions and flaps, except grafting (p> 0 97).   CONCLUSION The methodological approach and monitoring of techniques' reproduction were adequate. The training offered complemented cutaneous surgical skills of undergraduate medicine students.
BACKGROUND Conduction of and participation in clinical trials is a major challenge for surgical departments especially as job performance in hospitals has increased immensely during the last few years due to economic aspects. Only 11.7혻% of published clinical studies are randomized controlled trials. As more and more treatment procedures in medicine have an evidence-based design the aim must be to present randomized controlled trials with an evidence level 1 for an increasing number of surgical therapies. Since 2006 the German National Surgical Trial Network (CHIR-Net) has been established and funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) in order to promote the realization of clinical trials in surgery. Thus the basis for the execution of high quality clinical studies in surgery has been extended further. In the individual CHIR-Net centers clinical trials are planned, organized and supervised which requires extensive knowledge of prevalent international standards. Teaching them to rotating physicians is one of the tasks of CHIR-Net. Therefore, a special curriculum for physicians has been developed which is evaluated in this study.   MATERIALS AND METHODS From December 2010 to March 2011 an online survey of physicians who had previously rotated in the CHIR-Net was conducted, starting from the Surgical Regional Center (CRZ) Witten-Herdecke/Cologne. A total of 19 partly open and partly closed questions concerning the person, training, duration of the rotation, the funding applied for and the generated scientific output were surveyed. In addition, the curriculum for physicians and rotation time was checked by means of 17 questions in an evaluation matrix.   RESULTS In this article the results of the rotating physician evaluation are presented. The satisfaction of physicians with the training during the rotation is presented as well as an analysis of how many of the submitted publications were directly supported by CHIR-Net. It was also evaluated how many rotating physicians requested funding and what the type of funding was.   CONCLUSION With the rotating physician model of CHIR-Net a working concept for the training of surgeons in clinical research and the realization of randomized surgical trials was established as a viable solution for the difficult situation of clinical research in the surgical disciplines with the double burden of research and clinical practice.
Basic skills in oral/CMF surgery should be taught effectively to dental students as surgical skills training is traditionally under-represented in the dental curriculum compared to its later need in daily clinical practice. Rigid curricular time frames and prospectively condensed professional education foster new effective teaching and examination formats. Transmitting and assessing clinical competence objectively (independent of subjective bias), reliably (repeatable, inter-rater consistency) and valid (representative, structured task selection) was intended and evaluated in oral/CMF surgery skills acquisition starting in summer 2009. A small-group practical skills training (PST) day initiated a one-week practical training course, covering previously formulated learning objectives. An objective structured clinical evaluation (OSCE) was held at the end of each semester. Theoretical background knowledge and clinical skills should have to be memorized within a representative number of practical tasks (test stations). A first semester (26 students) used classical practical training alone as controls, the following semesters (171 students) had PST, considered as a study group. All 197 students were assessed with OSCE's over a 3-year period. An instructor held PST based on presentations, videos and practical training, including mannequins, with pairs of students. This included history taking, communication and interpretation of laboratory/image diagnostics, structured clinical facial examination, fracture diagnosis, venipuncture, suturing, biopsy and wire loops on pig jaws for manual and clinical skills, which were later incorporated in OSCE stations. OSCE average results increased from 63.3혻짹혻9.7% before and to 75.5혻짹혻10% after the inclusion of PST (p혻<혻0.05). Knowledge diffusion between sittings on the same test date and between consecutive semesters was insignificant. Students and faculty rated their learning/teaching experience 'very good' to 'good'. PST was effective in optimizing clinical skills as evaluated by OSCE.
BACKGROUND The 'hidden curriculum' and role models for responding to medical errors might play a central role in influencing residents' attitudes about disclosure. We sought to compare surgical and nonsurgical residents' exposure to role modeling for responding to medical errors and their attitudes about error disclosure.   STUDY DESIGN We conducted a cross-sectional, electronic survey of surgical and nonsurgical residents at 2 large academic medical centers. The questionnaire asked respondents about personal experience with medical errors; training for responding to errors; frequency of exposure to role modeling related to disclosure; and attitudes about disclosure. Descriptive statistics were used to describe frequencies. Chi-square and Fisher's exact test were used to compare proportions between surgical and nonsurgical trainees.   RESULTS The response rate was 58% (253 of 435). Surgical residents reported more frequently observing a colleague be treated harshly (eg, humiliated or verbally abused) for an error than nonsurgical residents (sometimes or often, 39% [26 of 66] vs 20% [37 of 187]; p = 0.002). Surgical residents were more likely than nonsurgical residents to believe they would be treated harshly by others if they acknowledged making a medical error (35% [23 of 66] vs 12% [23 of 187]; p < 0.001) and believe they have to compromise their own values when dealing with medical errors at their institution (11% [7 of 66] vs 2% [4 of 187]; p = 0.008). Surgical residents were less likely than nonsurgical residents to feel free to express concerns to other members of the team about medical errors in patient care (70% [46 of 66] vs 83% [115 of 187]; p = 0.02).   CONCLUSIONS The punitive response to error by senior members of the health care team might be an impediment to the transparent disclosure of errors among residents that might disproportionally affect surgical training programs.
OBJECTIVE To assess readiness of general surgery graduate trainees entering accredited surgical subspecialty fellowships in North America.   METHODS A multidomain, global assessment survey designed by the Fellowship Council research committee was electronically sent to all subspecialty program directors. Respondents spanned minimally invasive surgery, bariatric, colorectal, hepatobiliary, and thoracic specialties. There were 46 quantitative questions distributed across 5 domains and 1 or more reflective qualitative questions/domains.   RESULTS There was a 63% response rate (n = 91/145). Of respondent program directors, 21% felt that new fellows arrived unprepared for the operating room, 38% demonstrated lack of patient ownership, 30% could not independently perform a laparoscopic cholecystectomy, and 66% were deemed unable to operate for 30 unsupervised minutes of a major procedure. With regard to laparoscopic skills, 30% could not atraumatically manipulate tissue, 26% could not recognize anatomical planes, and 56% could not suture. Furthermore, 28% of fellows were not familiar with therapeutic options and 24% were unable to recognize early signs of complications. Finally, it was felt that the majority of new fellows were unable to conceive, design, and conduct research/academic projects. Thematic clustering of qualitative data revealed deficits in domains of operative autonomy, progressive responsibility, longitudinal follow-up, and scholarly focus after general surgery education.
OBJECTIVE Comparative effectiveness research has mostly been focused on comparison of treatment techniques. The goal of the present study was to extend the research to physician specialty.   BACKGROUND Both surgeons and interventionalists (cardiologists and radiologists) are involved in endovascular repairs (EVAR) of aortic aneurysms, with different residency education, operative experience, preoperative assessment and patient selection, and postoperative continuity of care.   METHODS Retrospective analysis was performed using the Nationwide Inpatient Sample from 1998 to 2009. Patients undergoing EVAR for abdominal aortic aneurysm were identified with International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, procedure code 39.71. Using physician identifiers available in the database, surgeons were identified by case experience in the same calendar year with elective open AAA repairs, arteriovenous fistula repairs, or carotid endarderectomy. Multivariate analysis adjusted for physician volume, AAA ruptured status, patient demographic and comorbidities, and hospital characteristics.   RESULTS A total of 28,094 EVARs were analyzed. Unadjusted mortality rates, length of stay, and total hospital charges were significantly higher for patients treated by interventionalists than those by surgeons (all Ps < 0.001). This difference persisted on multivariate analysis, where interventionalists were associated with increased likelihood of mortality (odds ratio = 1.39; 95% confidence interval, 1.04-1.89), longer length of stay (1.32 days; 95% confidence interval, 1.03-1.62), and higher total hospital charges ($19,312; 95% confidence interval, 16,471-22,153).   CONCLUSIONS Physician specialty is associated with patient outcomes. Surgeons are associated with improved outcomes, with lower mortality, shorter length of stay, and lower charges for EVAR cases, when compared with interventionalists. This finding has significant implications for future comparative effectiveness research and potential policy changes in patient referrals or physician admitting privileges.
OBJECTIVE The objectives of this analysis were to compare the outcomes of bile duct injuries by specialist over time and the role of management timing and biliary stents.   BACKGROUND Postoperative bile duct injuries require multidisciplinary management. In recent years, advancements have occurred in patient evaluation and in timing and type of therapy.   METHODS A multidisciplinary team managed 528 patients over 18 years. Mean age was 52 years; 69% were women and 95% had a cholecystectomy and/or bile duct exploration. Patients were classified by the Strasberg system as having bile leaks (type A, n = 239, 45%) or bile duct injuries (types B-E, n = 289, 55%). Injury outcomes from 1993 to 2003 (n = 132) were compared with those from 2004 to 2010 (n = 157). A successful outcome was defined as no need for further intervention after the initial 12 months of therapy. Standard statistical methods were employed.   RESULTS Patients with bile leaks were managed almost exclusively by endoscopists (96%) with a 96% success rate. Patients with bile duct injuries were managed most often by endoscopists (N = 115, 40%) followed by surgeons (N = 104, 36%) and interventional radiologists (N = 70, 24%). Overall success rates were best for surgery (88%, P < 0.05) followed by endoscopy (76%) and interventional radiology (50%) and improved over time (78% vs 69%). Outcomes were best for surgery in recent years (95% vs 80%, P < 0.05) and for patients stented for more than 6 months (P < 0.01).   CONCLUSIONS Almost all bile leaks and many bile duct injuries can be managed successfully by endoscopists. Selected proximal injuries can be treated by interventional radiologists with modest success. Outcomes of bile duct injuries are best with surgical management and in patients who are stented for more than 6 months.
INTRODUCTION The feedback loop of incident reporting is essential in improving patient care. Few studies have followed the loop around its cycle and little data are available concerning the impact of interventions. We investigated the feedback loop before and after the implementation of an electronic reporting system.   METHOD Data were collected before and after our intervention. Data were analyzed in terms of the percentage of incidents evaluated, the percentage of incidents resulting in action, whether correlations demonstrated an increased rate of action taken as incident risk score increased.   RESULTS Prior to our intervention, 43% and 40% of incidents reported were evaluated and acted upon, respectively. Postintervention, the number of incidents reported increased by 198%. All incidents were evaluated and 66% were acted upon. Both pre- and postintervention, no correlations demonstrated an increase in action taken as incident severity increased.   CONCLUSION Our intervention resulted in a considerable increase in the number of incidents reported, evaluated, and acted upon. Such an effect would be expected to improve patient safety, although further studies are needed to definitively confirm this. We therefore recommend the use of electronic systems and further studies to evaluate their impact on patient safety.
BACKGROUND As new technology is developed and scientific evidence demonstrates strategies to improve the quality of care, it is essential that surgeons keep current with their skills. Rural surgeons need efficient and targeted continuing medical education that matches their broader scope of practice. Developing such a program begins with an assessment of the learning needs of the rural surgeon. The aim of this study was to assess the learning needs considered most important to surgeons practicing in rural areas.   STUDY DESIGN A needs assessment questionnaire was administered to surgeons practicing in rural areas. An additional gap analysis questionnaire was administered to registrants of a skills course for rural surgeons.   RESULTS Seventy-one needs assessment questionnaires were completed. The self-reported procedures most commonly performed included laparoscopic cholecystectomy (n = 44), hernia repair (n = 42), endoscopy (n = 43), breast surgery (n = 23), appendectomy (n = 20), and colon resection (n = 18). Respondents indicated that they would most like to learn more skills related to laparoscopic colon resection (n = 16), laparoscopic antireflux procedures (n = 6), laparoscopic common bile duct exploration/ERCP (n = 5), colonoscopy/advanced techniques and esophagogastroscopy (n = 4), and breast surgery (n = 4). Ultrasound, hand surgery, and leadership and communication were additional topics rated as useful by the respondents. Skills course participants indicated varying levels of experience and confidence with breast ultrasound, ultrasound for central line insertion, hand injury, and facial soft tissue injury.   CONCLUSIONS Our results demonstrated that surgeons practicing in rural areas have a strong interest in acquiring additional skills in a variety of general and subspecialty surgical procedures. The information obtained in this study may be used to guide curriculum development of further postgraduate skills courses targeted to rural surgeons.
BACKGROUND Chairpersons of surgery departments are key stakeholders and role models and leaders of research in academic medical institutions. However, the characteristics of surgical chairpersons are understudied. This study aimed to investigate the association between the personal academic achievement of a surgical chairperson and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) funding of the department.   METHODS We calculated the Hirsch index (H-index), a measure of research productivity, for chairpersons of surgery of the top 90 research medical schools that were ranked by U.S. News & World Report. Specialty training, y as chairperson, location, and NIH institutional and department funding were analyzed. Nonparametric tests and linear regression methods were used to compare the different groups.   RESULTS Of the 90 chairpersons, 20 positions for chairs (22%) are either recent (<1혻y) or unfilled (n = 6). Only 3% of all chairpersons are women, and the median H-index for the chairpersons is 20 (Interquartile range 14-27) with a median 101 publications with 14 cites per publication. Median surgery-specific NIH funding in 2011 was $1.7 million (Interquartile range $721,042-5,085,305). The chairperson's H-index was exponentially associated with department funding in multivariate models adjusting for institution rank, except when the H-index was extreme (<4 or >49) (coefficient 0.32, P = 0.02).   CONCLUSIONS The research productivity of a chairperson is the only personal attribute of those studied that is associated with the departmental NIH funding. This suggests the important role an academically productive surgical leader may play as a champion for the academic success of the department.
BACKGROUND AND AIMS Surgery cancelations cause inappropriate use of hospital resources and additional financial and psychological stress to patients. Cancelation rates have been described to be even more than 10% of scheduled cases. Preoperative anesthesia evaluation clinics have been initialized to decrease cancelation rates. At Hyvink채채 hospital, 95% of elective surgical patients are admitted on the morning of operation, and only 25% of these patients visit preoperative anesthesia evaluation clinic prior to surgery. Cancelation rate in Finnish hospitals has not been described.   MATERIAL AND METHODS We studied retrospectively 12,205 scheduled elective same-day admission surgical cases at Helsinki and Uusimaa Hospital District, Hyvink채채 hospital for a period of 2 years. Obstetric cases, emergency cases, and a few inpatient cases were excluded. A case was considered as canceled if surgery was canceled after the finalization of operation room schedule for the next day. Cancelation rates among different specialties and reasons for cancelation were analyzed.   RESULTS A total of 12,205 surgeries were scheduled during the study period, and 551 (4.5%) of these were canceled. The highest cancelation rate was in hand surgery, with 8.2% of scheduled cases, followed by orthopedic surgery with 5.4%, and pediatric surgery with 5.1% cancelation rate. Endocrinology had no cancelations, and breast, urology, and vein surgery also had less than 2% of canceled cases. Patient-related issues caused 72.4% of cancelations, and operation no longer being necessary caused 26% of all cancelations.   CONCLUSIONS Day of surgery cancelation rate was low in same-day admission, although it varied between specialties. Specialties having explicit surgery indications had fewer cancelations than specialties having surgery indications based on more subjective diagnostic. Process improvements need to be considered continuously to further decrease cancelation rate.
BACKGROUND Randomized clinical trials (RCTs) are uncommon in pediatric surgical specialties and the quality of reporting is unknown. Our primary purpose was to analyze published surgical RCTs involving children to measure adherence to the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) guidelines.   STUDY DESIGN Published RCTs from January 1, 2000 through December 31, 2009 were reviewed. The trials were evaluated for the presence of 7 CONSORT guidelines and also graded according to the Jadad scale.   RESULTS Two hundred and twenty-eight trials were included. Five trials met혻all 7 CONSORT criteria (2%) and 53 had a Jadad score of 3 (23%). Slightly more than 50% of all trials specified primary outcomes and <25% described power calculations according to CONSORT. Adherence to CONSORT guidelines for allocation concealment, randomization description, and attrition details was even lower. There were significant differences between surgical specialties with regard to CONSORT adherence to the majority of the guidelines. Pediatric general surgery had the largest number of published RCTs. Pediatric orthopaedic surgery had the highest proportion of trials with a Jadad score 3 (40%).   CONCLUSIONS Adherence to CONSORT guidelines is low across the spectrum of children's surgical specialties, although significant differences do exist. Future RCTs in children's surgical specialties should specifically focus on areas of low adherence to reporting guidelines.
Nowadays, general surgery is considered as a tiring and uninteresting specialty. It is believed that the advent of new technologies, the internet, videosurgery, robotics, telemedicine, specialization and the indifference of recently graduated for the general surgery may be factors that had contributed to this change. In this article the changes of general surgery practice in Brazil, in the world an their consequences in the general surgeon professional development are being discussed.
One of the most critical yet frequently misunderstood principles of research is sample size determination. Obtaining an inadequate sample is a serious problem that can invalidate an entire study. Without an extensive background in statistics, the seemingly simple question of selecting a sample size can become quite a daunting task. This article aims to give a researcher with no background in statistics the basic tools needed for sample size determination. After reading this article, the researcher will be aware of all the factors involved in a power analysis and will be able to work more effectively with the statistician when determining sample size. This work also reviews the power of a statistical hypothesis, as well as how to estimate the effect size of a research study. These are the two key components of sample size determination. Several examples will be considered throughout the text.
BACKGROUND There is a lack of well-trained surgeons in Germany. The medical students get their last contact to a surgical discipline in the final year of their medical education. The student's decision for a medical discipline is surely influenced by bad experiences during the last practical training in surgery. The aim of our project was to give the medical students an engaged and structured understanding of surgery with the aid of a logbook. It was tested in a pilot phase and should increase the number of final year students and their interest in surgery in the long-term.   METHODS From 5 /2009 the structure of the surgical part of the final year was worked over by the Clinics for General, Visceral und Tumour Surgery, Vascular Surgery, Heart and Thoracic Surgery and Trauma Surgery. A logbook was developed which includes the rotation through the 4 different surgical departments, lists the targets of study and the practical exercises in obligatory and optional schedules, defines one patient care per rotation and introduces a mentoring system. The logbook is clearly represented and the required signatures of the senior doctors are minimized. After the surgical term the students filled out a questionnaire and were interviewed about the pros and cons of the logbook.   RESULTS In December 2009 the new logbook was distributed for the first time. Until now 113 final year students have used it. The first evaluation of 45냩tudents showed a positive rating of the clinical organization and structure of the clinic, the list of the learning targets and the practical skills. The implementation of the mentoring system and the required signatures were still incomplete. The final year students wished for more training time for the doctors. The positive response of the final year students results in an increasing number of final year students chosing a career in surgery.   CONCLUSION The new logbook for the surgical part of the final year at the University of Cologne helps the students with the daily routine of the surgical departments, gives a review of the learning targets and emphasizes a good surgical training.
Increasing concern has been expressed about the significant shortage of new trainees in surgery. As research in the context of surgical education and training is an essential element of attraction for the field of surgery, there is an urgent priority to implement clear room for research in the concepts of education and training. In this article the relevance of both the thesis accompanying the study and research training during surgical residency for the clinical self-image, personal satisfaction and academic development of young surgeons will be presented.
BACKGROUND To determine the patient, doctor and student perceptions with different styles of student participation in a surgical outpatient clinic.   METHODS A randomized controlled trial was conducted in surgical outpatients. Participants included patients scheduled to see one of four specialist general surgeons, the surgeons themselves and third-year medical students undertaking their general surgery rotation at the Geelong Hospital. A total of 151 consultations were randomized to one of three consultation styles between August 2011 and August 2012. (i) 'No Student', consultation without a student being present, (ii) 'Student with Doctor', consultation where the student accompanied the doctor throughout the consultation and (iii) 'Student before Doctor', consultation where the student interviewed the patient before the doctor and examined the patient in the doctor's presence. Participants' perceptions and experience of each of the consultations was assessed in the form of written questionnaires.   RESULTS There was no difference in overall patient satisfaction with different styles of student participation (P = 0.080). Students showed a clear preference for the 'Student before Doctor' consultation style (P = 0.023). There were no differences in consultation outcomes from the doctor's perspective (P = 0.88), except time (P < 0.0001).   CONCLUSION This study supports a style of consultation where students are actively involved in patient care as it has no adverse effects on patient satisfaction and it is the preferred participation style from the student's perspective. Doctors do not feel that active student involvement interferes with their ability to deliver healthcare except that it prolongs consultation time.
CONTEXT Little is known about practice patterns in thyroid cancer, a cancer that is increasing in incidence.   OBJECTIVE We sought to identify aspects of thyroid cancer management that have the greatest variation.   DESIGN/SETTING/PARTICIPANTS We surveyed 944 physicians involved in thyroid cancer care from 251 hospitals affiliated with the US National Cancer Database. Physicians were asked questions in the following four domains: thyroid surgery, radioactive iodine use, thyroid hormone replacement postsurgery, and long-term thyroid cancer management. We calculated the ratio of observed variation to hypothetical maximum variation under the assumed distribution of the response. Ratios closer to 1 indicate greater variation.   RESULTS We had a 66% response rate. We found variation in multiple aspects of thyroid cancer management, including the role of central lymph node dissections (variation, 0.99; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.98-1.00), the role of pretreatment scans before radioactive iodine treatment (variation, 1.00; 95% CI, 0.98-1.00), and all aspects of long-term thyroid cancer management, including applications of ultrasound (variation, 0.97; 95% CI, 0.93-0.99) and radioactive iodine scans (variation, 0.99; 95% CI, 0.97-1.00). For the management of small thyroid cancers, variation exists in all domains, including optimal extent of surgery (variation, 0.91; 95% CI, 0.88-0.94) and the role of both radioactive iodine treatment (variation, 0.91; 95% CI, 0.89-0.93) and suppressive doses of thyroid hormone replacement (variation, 1.00; 95% CI, 0.99-1.00).   CONCLUSION We identified areas of variation in thyroid cancer management. To reduce the variation and improve the management of thyroid cancer, there is a need for more research and more research dissemination.
BACKGROUND Subspecialization defined pediatric surgery using Alder Hey innovations in neonatal surgical units (Rickham) and anesthesia (Jackson-Rees). In neonatal surgery, United Kingdom subspecialization for cloacal extrophy and biliary atresia acknowledges their dependence on multidisciplinary management and the desirability of caseload for training. We phased in regional subspecialization for esophageal atresia (EA) repair and replacement surgery while trainee numbers increased nationally to reduce hours. We examined EA outcomes and training during subspecialization.   METHODS We analyzed EA cases (1999-2009) treated at Alder Hey Children's Hospital in two 5-year cohorts, the first early phase of incomplete subspecialization and the later near-total or 'comprehensive' subspecialization phase. These periods approximated those before and after trainee numbers rose sharply to reduce working hours.   RESULTS Of 119 cases, 60 in the early cohort shared similar characteristics with the 59 in the later cohort. Near-complete subspecialization was achieved in the second 5 years with 97% of cases performed under a surgeon with an EA specialty interest; in the earlier cohort, 25% of surgeries were undertaken by surgeons without EA subspecialty interest. With near-complete subspecialization, pediatric intensive care unit stay fell from 5 (4-11) to 4 (2-7) days (median (IQR); P = .005), and approaches such as the Bianchi axillary repair and Bax single-stage jejunal interposition were introduced; hospital stay went from 25 (12-63) to 17 (13-28) days (P = .27), and deaths, from 6 to 3 children (P = .49). Mortality was 7.6% (9/119) compared with 14% (19/134) in our previous institutional series ((2) = 2.8, P = .09), and neonatal mortality fell from 6% to 0 (P = .008). Near doubling of trainee numbers accompanied an approximately 3-fold fall in repairs per trainee over the study.   CONCLUSION Near-complete subspecialization for EA coincided with reduced pediatric intensive care unit stay, successful introduction of cosmetic axillary approaches, and extension of our replacement service to offer all interposition types. It has not reversed the steep decline in trainee experience of EA that has been associated with the greater numbers of trainees that have been employed to reduce working hours.
OBJECTIVE To identify pressures created by surgical culture and social setting and explore mechanisms for how they might impact operative decision-making.   BACKGROUND Surgeons apply judgments within a powerful social context and are constantly socialized and influenced by communicative exchanges. In this study, the authors characterized the nature of the surgical social context, focusing on the interactions between external social influences and the cognitive ability of the surgeon to respond to uncertain, unexpected, or critical moments in operations.   METHODS The authors reviewed the sociological and psychosocial literatures to examine concepts in identity construction, socialization process, and image management literatures and synthesized a conceptual framework allowing for the examination of how social factors and image management might impact surgical performance.   RESULTS The surgeon's professional identity is constructed and negotiated on the basis of the context of surgical culture. Trainees are socialized to display confidence and certainty as part of the 'hidden curriculum' and several sociocultural mechanisms regulating 'appropriate' surgical behavior exist in this system. In the image management literature, individuals put on a 'front' or social performance that is socially acceptable. Several mechanisms for how image management might impact surgical judgment and decision-making were identified through an exploration of the cognitive psychology literature.   CONCLUSIONS Sociopsychological literatures can be linked with decision-making and cognitive capacity theory. When cognitive resources reach their limit during critical and uncertain moments of an operation, the consumption of resources by the pressures of reputation and ego might interfere with the thought processes needed to execute the task at hand. Recognizing the effects of external social pressures may help the surgeon better self-regulate, respond mindfully to these pressures, and prevent surgical error.
The Association of Surgeons in Training (ASiT) is a professional body and registered charity working to promote excellence in surgical training for the benefit of junior doctors and patients alike. With a membership of over 2000 surgical trainees from all ten surgical specialities, the association provides support at both regional and national levels throughout the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland. Originally founded in 1976, ASiT is independent of the National Health Service (NHS), Surgical Royal Colleges, and speciality associations. The 2012 Annual Conference in Cardiff City Hall brought together nearly 700 delegates for an educational weekend programme with expert guest speakers. Clinical updates were complimented by debates on current training in surgery, and the weekend included 6 pre-conference courses covering a diverse range of topics including laparoscopic skills, surgical drawing and a masterclass in journal club. A record number of 1168 abstract submissions were received and those successful competed for 18 awards representing 짙3500 in trainee prizes and bursaries. As the only national surgical trainee meeting for all specialities, ASiT continues to grow and we look forward to an even larger and more successful conference next year.
BACKGROUND Complete surgical excision is the most common treatment for basal cell carcinoma (BCC), and this intervention is often performed by surgeons who are not dermatologists (e.g., plastic surgeons, general surgeons, oral and maxillofacial surgeons, ophthalmologists, and otorhinolaryngologists).   OBJECTIVES To determine positive margin rates in BCCs removed by surgeons from different specialties and to identify clinical and pathologic factors that might explain potential differences between specialties.   METHODS We retrospectively reviewed the pathology reports of all BCCs diagnosed at Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron between January 2009 and March 2001. The statistical methods included a descriptive analysis of clinical and pathologic variables, standard statistical analyses, and multivariate logistic regression.   RESULTS We included 921 BCCs from 750 patients; 549 of the tumors had been excised by a dermatologist. The overall positive margin rate was 12.6%, but the rate for tumors removed by dermatologists was significantly lower than that for those removed by other specialists (6.7% vs 21.5%). There was a 3.8-fold increased relative risk of positive margins following excision by a surgeon who was not a dermatologist, independently of patient age, tumor site, maximum diameter of the resected specimen, and histologic subtype.   CONCLUSIONS Accurate macroscopic identification of tumor margins, which are often difficult to see, and familiarity with the natural history of BCC are key factors in the successful surgical treatment of BCCs. The higher rate of tumor-free margins achieved by dermatologists in this study is probably mainly due to their greater experience in these 2 areas.
PURPOSE To evaluate trends in glaucoma surgery subspecialization.   DESIGN Population-based analysis of incisional glaucoma surgery and laser trabeculoplasty practice patterns among all ophthalmologists in Ontario, Canada, from 1995 through 2010.   PARTICIPANTS All ophthalmologists in Ontario, Canada, providing universal health care for the provincial population of approximately 12 million.   METHODS The province of Ontario provides government-funded universal health care insurance to all citizens through the Ontario Health Insurance Plan (OHIP). Anonymized physician services data were obtained from the OHIP database, which has excellent accuracy for procedure performance.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Proportion of ophthalmologists providing incisional glaucoma surgery and laser trabeculoplasty and the distribution of these surgical and laser procedures among ophthalmologists.   RESULTS Between 1995 and 2010, the median number of ophthalmologists in Ontario was 427 (35.1 per 1 million population), ranging from 417 to 453 (32.9-40.3 per 1 million population). The percentage of ophthalmologists providing incisional glaucoma surgery dropped from 35% in 1995 to 19% in 2010, a 47% decline. Over the same period, the mean number of incisional glaucoma surgeries performed per surgeon doubled, and the percentage of incisional glaucoma operations provided by high-volume surgeons rose from 23% to 59%. The percentage of ophthalmologists performing laser trabeculoplasty was relatively stable (48% in 1995 to 50% in 2010).   CONCLUSIONS Over the past 16 years, the proportion of ophthalmologists providing incisional glaucoma surgery has declined significantly. At the same time, the proportion of incisional glaucoma surgery provided by high-volume glaucoma surgeons has more than doubled. These trends will have important implications for stakeholders from policy makers and hospitals to academic departments and residency education programs.
BACKGROUND The incidence of gastric cancer (GC) is high, and colorectal cancer (CRC) has significantly increased in Asian countries.   AIM To examine the current screening for GC and CRC within East Asia by means of a questionnaire survey.   METHODS Representative members of the Committee of the International Gastrointestinal Consensus Symposium provided a questionnaire to physicians in six East Asian countries.   RESULTS A total of 449 physicians participated in this survey. In all countries, more than 70% of physicians started GC screening between 40 and 59 years. The most popular method to screen for GC was endoscopy (92.7%), but combination methods such as Helicobacter pylori (HP) antibody, barium X-ray, and tumor marker with endoscopy differed by country. For HP-positive individuals, most physicians screened every year by endoscopy, and for individuals post-HP eradication, about half of physicians (56.3%) thought there was a need to follow-up with GC screening. Among all physicians, the most common age to start CRC screening was in the 40s (39.8%) and 50s (40.9%). Based on the American Cancer Society Recommendations, a fecal occult blood test every year was the most popular method for CRC screening overall. However, among each country, this test was most popular in only Japan (76.9%) and Indonesia. In other countries, sigmoidoscopy every 5 years and total colonoscopy every 10 years were the most popular methods.   CONCLUSION There are similarities and differences in the screening of GC and CRC among East Asian countries.
BACKGROUND Information regarding surgical capacity in the developing world is limited by the paucity of available data regarding surgical care, infrastructure, and human resources in the literature. The purpose of this study was to assess surgical and anesthesia infrastructure and human resources in Ethiopia as part of a larger study by the Harvard Humanitarian Initiative examining surgical and anesthesia capacity in ten low-income countries in Africa.   METHODS A comprehensive survey tool developed by the Harvard Humanitarian Initiative was used to assess surgical capacity of hospitals in Ethiopia. A total of 20 hospitals were surveyed through convenience sampling. Eight areas of surgical and anesthesia care were examined, including access and availability, access to human resources, infrastructure, outcomes, operating room information and procedures, equipment, nongovernmental organization delivery of surgical services, and pharmaceuticals. Results were obtained over a 1-month period during October 2011.   RESULTS There is wide variation in accessibility, with hospital-to-population ratios ranging from 1:99,010 to 1:1,082,761. The overall physician to population ratio ranges from 1:4715 to 1:107,602. The average hospital has one to two operating rooms, 4.2 surgeons, one gynecologist, and 4.5 anesthesia providers-although in all but three hospitals anesthesiology was provided by nonphysician personnel only (i.e., a nurse anesthetist). Access to continuous electricity, running water, essential medications, and monitoring systems is very limited in all hospitals surveyed, although such access did vary across regions.   CONCLUSIONS This survey of Ethiopia's hospital resources attempts to identify specific areas of need where resources, education, and development can be targeted. Because the major surgical mortality comes from late presentations, increasing accessibility through infrastructure development would likely provide a major improvement in surgical morbidity and mortality rates. Infrastructure limitations of electricity, water, oxygen, and blood banking do not prove to be significant barriers to surgical care. The increasing number of physicians is promising, although efforts should be directed specifically toward increasing the number of anesthesiologists and surgeons in the country.
The purpose of craniomaxillofacial surgery is to improve function, occlusion, craniofacial balance, and aesthetics. Accurate diagnosis, assessment, and careful treatment planning are essential in achieving a successful outcome, and an understanding of the pattern of facial growth is integral in this process. Patients with craniofacial congenital dysmorphologies, posttraumatic asymmetries, or disturbances of facial balance from radiation may have functional and/or aesthetic issues that require treatment. Understanding the complexities of growth in the skull and face is a key component to appropriate treatment planning for these disorders. This article reviews growth and development in the craniofacial skeleton.
BACKGROUND Numerous factors have been linked to surgical career choice, including the quality of third-year surgical clerkship. The vast majority of studies also selectively evaluate one or only a few variables that link to surgical career choice, so relative impact cannot be assessed. This study simultaneously evaluates the majority of variables linked to surgical career choice in previous research so that the relative contributions of each of these variables with respect to surgical career choice can be determined.   STUDY DESIGN Surveys before, during, and after the third-year surgical clerkship included student demographics, background, and values (eg, importance of money, controllable lifestyle), and student reactions to the third-year surgical clerkship. The dependent variables in this study included interest in surgery at the beginning and end of the clerkship and matching into a surgical residency.   RESULTS Both univariate and multivariate analyses generally supported findings in the literature, but the strengths of these associations reported previously might not have been accurate. In this study, the surgical resident match odds ratio for students starting the clerkship already knowing they wanted to be a surgeon was 22.46; the next highest associations were 4.65 and 3.37, which corresponded to earlier exposure to a surgical specialty and earlier exposure to general surgery, respectively. Differences in career choice for general surgeons and surgical specialists were also explored.   CONCLUSIONS Although the experience of the clerkship is related to career choice, the largest impact of the clerkship is for those already interested in a surgical career. Interest in a surgical career largely develops before the third-year clerkship. Implications of the results for recruiting greater numbers of students into surgical careers are discussed.
INTRODUCTION Few educational programs exist for medical students that address professionalism in surgery, even though this core competency is required for graduate medical education and maintenance of board certification. Lapses in professional behavior occur commonly in surgical disciplines, with a negative effect on the operative team and patient care. Therefore, education regarding professionalism should begin early in the surgeon's formative process, to improve behavior. The goal of this project was to enhance the attitudes and knowledge of medical students regarding professionalism, to help them understand the role of professionalism in a surgical practice.   METHODS We implemented a 4-h seminar, spread out as 1-h sessions over the course of their month-long rotation, for 4th-year medical students serving as acting interns (AIs) in General Surgery, a surgical subspecialty, Obstetrics/Gynecology, or Anesthesia. Teaching methods included lecture, small group discussion, case studies, and journal club. Topics included Cognitive/Ethical Basis of Professionalism, Behavioral/Social Components of Professionalism, Managing Yourself, and Leading While You Work. We assessed attitudes about professionalism with a pre-course survey and tracked effect on learning and behavior with a post-course questionnaire. We asked AIs to rate the egregiousness of 30 scenarios involving potential lapses in professionalism.   RESULTS A total of 104 AIs (mean age, 26.5 y; male to female ratio, 1.6:1) participated in our course on professionalism in surgery. Up to 17.8% of the AIs had an alternate career before coming to medical school. Distribution of intended careers was: General Surgery, 27.4%; surgical subspecialties, 46.6%; Obstetrics/Gynecology, 13.7%; and Anesthesia, 12.3%. Acting interns ranked professionalism as the third most important of the six core competencies, after clinical skills and medical knowledge, but only slightly ahead of communication. Most AIs believed that professionalism could be taught and learned, and that the largest obstacle was not enough time in the curriculum. The most effective reported teaching methods were mentoring and modeling; lecture and journal club were the effective. Regarding attitudes toward professionalism, the most egregious examples of misconduct were substance abuse, illegal billing, boundary issues, sexual harassment, and lying about patient data, whereas the least egregious examples were receiving textbooks or honoraria from drug companies, advertising, self-prescribing for family members, and exceeding work-hour restrictions. The most important attributes of the professional were integrity and honesty, whereas the least valued were autonomy and altruism. The AIs reported that the course significantly improved their ability to define professionalism, identify attributes of the professional, understand the importance of professionalism, and integrate these concepts into practice (all P < 0.01).   CONCLUSIONS Although medical students interested in surgery may already have well-formed attitudes and sophisticated knowledge about professionalism, this core competency can still be taught to and learned by trainees pursuing a surgical career.
OBJECTIVE To investigate the prevalence of discontinuation and nonpublication of surgical versus medical randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and to explore risk factors for discontinuation and nonpublication of surgical RCTs.   BACKGROUND Trial discontinuation has significant scientific, ethical, and economic implications. To date, the prevalence of discontinuation of surgical RCTs is unknown.   METHODS All RCT protocols approved between 2000 and 2003 by 6 ethics committees in Canada, Germany, and Switzerland were screened. Baseline characteristics were collected and, if published, full reports retrieved. Risk factors for early discontinuation for slow recruitment and nonpublication were explored using multivariable logistic regression analyses.   RESULTS In total, 863 RCT protocols involving adult patients were identified, 127 in surgery (15%) and 736 in medicine (85%). Surgical trials were discontinued for any reason more often than medical trials [43% vs 27%, risk difference 16% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 5%-26%); P = 0.001] and more often discontinued for slow recruitment [18% vs 11%, risk difference 8% (95% CI: 0.1%-16%); P = 0.020]. The percentage of trials not published as full journal article was similar in surgical and medical trials (44% vs 40%, risk difference 4% (95% CI: -5% to 14%); P = 0.373). Discontinuation of surgical trials was a strong risk factor for nonpublication (odds ratio = 4.18, 95% CI: 1.45-12.06; P = 0.008).   CONCLUSIONS Discontinuation and nonpublication rates were substantial in surgical RCTs and trial discontinuation was strongly associated with nonpublication. These findings need to be taken into account when interpreting surgical literature. Surgical trialists should consider feasibility studies before embarking on full-scale trials.
BACKGROUND General practitioners with specialty interests (GPwSIs) have been an emerging entity in the last decade or so and aim to improve patient's access to specialist level care in the primary care setting. This is achieved by them providing equivalent quality and outcomes to secondary consultant-led services, while not necessarily providing the same breadth of clinical care as them. In this systematic review, we attempt to address their efficacy for surgical procedures and specialties.   METHODS PRISMA guidelines were followed and an electronic literature search was performed independently by two authors using predefined search terms across EMBASE, Ovid MedLine, PubMed, PSYCINFO and the Cochrane Library databases. A total of 817 articles were reviewed after which only six were included for the systematic review.   RESULTS Of the six articles selected, three studies analysed efficacy of GPwSIs with regard to surgical excision of skin lesions. One study looked at the economic evaluation of a GPwSI-led dermatology service in primary care and included GPwSIs carrying out skin excisions. The remaining two included studies were from the same institution and evaluated hernia repairs at a single centre general practitioner practice.   CONCLUSION There is generally, a paucity of evidence looking at the efficacy of GPwSIs for surgical procedures. While they seem to provide an acceptable standard of specialist care in the primary care setting, they do not appear to save money. However, they provide an alternative workforce and the improved access to care that results from it may offset their higher costs.
The understanding of the optimal surgical timing for stabilization in thoracolumbar fractures is severely limited. Thoracolumbar spine fractures can be devastating injuries and are often associated with significant morbidity and mortality. The role of early surgical stabilization (within 48-72 hours of injury) as a vehicle to improve outcomes in these patients has generated significant interest. Goals of early stabilization include improved neurological recovery, faster pulmonary recovery, improved pain control, and decreased health care costs. Opponents cite the potential for increased bleeding, hypotension, and the risk of further cord injury as a few factors that weigh against early stabilization. The concept of spinal cord injury and its relationship to surgical timing remains in question. However, when neurological outcomes are eliminated from the equation, certain measures have shown positive influences from prompt surgical fixation. Early fixation of thoracolumbar spine fractures can significantly decrease the duration of hospital stay and the number of days in the intensive care unit. Additionally, prompt stabilization can reduce rates of pulmonary complications. This includes decreased rates of pneumonia and fewer days on ventilator support. Cost analysis revealed as much as $80,000 in savings per patient with early stabilization. All of these benefits come without an increase in morbidity or evidence of increased mortality. In addition, there is no evidence that early stabilization has any ill effect on the injured or uninjured spinal cord. Based on the existing data, early fixation of thoracolumbar fractures has been linked with positive outcomes without clear evidence of negative impacts on the patient's neurological status, associated morbidities, or mortality. These procedures can be viewed as 'damage control' and may consist of simple posterior instrumentation or open reductions with internal fixation as indicated. Based on the current literature it is advisable to proceed with early surgical stabilization of thoracolumbar fractures in a well-resuscitated patient, unless extenuating medical conditions would prevent it.
BACKGROUND The Role 3 Hospital at Camp Bastion, Afghanistan, is regarded as one of the most capable trauma hospitals in the world. It has treated almost 7,000 trauma patients since 2006 and performed over 10,000 trauma operations. Pediatric patients form a significant proportion of this workload but pediatric specialists are not routinely deployed. The relevant surgery skill sets have not been specifically investigated.   METHODS The Joint Theater Trauma Registry was retrospectively reviewed for all pediatric trauma cases admitted to the Role 3 Hospital at Camp Bastion, Afghanistan from July 2008 to November 2012. Patient demographics and surgical procedures were recorded.   RESULTS During the study period, there were 766 pediatric patients admitted. A total of 3,390 surgical and resuscitative procedures were performed: 477 extremity injuries required 156 major amputations, 341 abdominal surgical procedures included 120 exploratory laparotomies, 329 thoracic procedures were performed including 4 tracheal repairs and 2 lung resections; and 177 vascular procedures were also performed.   CONCLUSIONS The surgical caseload over this study period ascertains the pediatric skill sets that the deployed surgeon should possess. None of these procedures are specific to the pediatric population. This could help guide focused training although reassuring the deployed surgeon of the likely pediatric surgical presentations, and therefore their competence in dealing with them.
BACKGROUND The creation of an acute care surgery service provides a rich operative experience for acute care surgeons. Elective surgeons typically have concerns about whether their practice volume will be restored with elective cases. Acute care surgery has financial implications for both groups. The aim of this project is to examine the impact in terms of work relative value units (wRVUs), collections, and cases in both groups with creation of an acute care surgery service at our institution.   STUDY DESIGN Work RVUs, collections, and case volume were examined from departmental records for 2 groups before and after acute care surgery service creation. The service began on September 1, 2008. Before this time, emergency surgical consults went to the general surgeon on call. After this date, all emergency consults were seen by acute care surgeons.   RESULTS The number of operations performed by the acute care surgery group increased significantly when the mean of the 2 years after institution of acute care surgery were compared with the mean of the 2 years preceding the service creation (1,639 vs 790/year; p = 0.007). There was no change in total operations done by the elective surgery group (2,763 vs 2,496/year: p = 0.13). Elective caseload, however, did increase by 23% in the elective surgery group. In the acute care surgery group, wRVUs increased by 140% and elective surgery group wRVUs decreased by 8%. Collections increased in both groups (acute care surgery 129%, elective surgery 7%) and the combined collections of the groups increased by $2,138,00 in the year after service creation.   CONCLUSIONS Acute care surgery service creation took emergency business from the elective surgery group, but this was almost immediately replaced with elective cases. This resulted in higher collections for both groups and a resultant significant increase in collections in aggregate.
The Danish professor, surgeon, medical superintendent, researcher and writer of fictional literature Erik Amdrup is one of the inventors of the parietal cell vagotomy. He carried out many internationally acclaimed research projects about the surgical treatment of gastric and duodenal ulcer. At the same time he witnessed the changes in the conditions at the Danish hospitals. He used his professional experiences in his prose and his memoirs. They give an insight into the younger Danish history of medicine.
BACKGROUND The question of whether a medical care unit is an appropriate tool for outpatient care has been discussed for a long time. Our aim is to investigate whether the MCU is an effective instrument for outpatient care and adequate performance-related remuneration.   MATERIAL AND METHODS This retro- and prospective overview of the work included statements on legal foundations for medical care units, for reimbursement of services in medical care units, the development of medical care centres in Germany and a listing of the specific advantages and disadvantages of an MCU. This article focuses on the generally applicable facts and complements them with examples from general, visceral and vascular surgery. The main quantitative data on medical centre statistics come from different publications of the National Association of Statutory Health Insurance for Physicians.   RESULTS From a legal point of view the instrument MCU allows the participating of ambulatory and stationary care in the framework of medical care contracts. This has been especially extended for stationary applications, including the spectrum of possibilities that can contribute under certain circumstances for the provision of medical care in underdeveloped regions. Freelancers can benefit primarily from financial risk and minimising bureaucratic routine. The remuneration for services performed in the MCU is analogous to that of other ambulatory care providers. Basically, there are no disadvantages, but a greater design freedom and opportunities for the generation of aggregates are visible. The number of MCU in Germany has quadrupled in the last five years, indicating an establishment of an outpatient care landscape. MCU offers from the patient's perspective, providers and policy specific advantages and disadvantages. Indeed the benefits outweigh the disadvantages, but this is not yet verified by qualitative studies.   CONCLUSION The question of the appropriateness of medical care units as outpatient care instrumentation must be considered differentially. Under current conditions it appears suitable for ensuring the MCU and the supplement of care supply. Whether a value can be generated in the quality of care of patients, however, has to be examined separately, as there are no valid data so far. The same applies to economic assessments of costs and benefits from an economic perspective.
The dominant role for the emergence and establishment of intensive care medicine can be attributed to surgery. The first critical care units were developed in surgical university hospitals. Numerous scientific findings and interventional procedures have been contributed to intensive care medicine by surgeons and surgical disease symptoms shaped the character of the intensive care units. Currently 40% of the intensive care beds in Germany are assigned to surgical disciplines and surgery is the prerequisite for this operative intensive care. Nevertheless, both the human and ideational impact of surgery on intensive care medicine has decreased in recent decades. Through the formation of large interdisciplinary intensive care units, surgery continues to be threatened with losing its influence even further. Now and in the future, the role of surgery has to be the maintenance and enhancement of surgical specialized intensive care medicine. Surgery has to make surgical intensive care medicine interesting and attractive for physicians again.
We will discuss a new initiative of the American College of Surgeons and the American Pediatric Surgical Association to prospectively define optimal resource standards for children's surgical care.
The word 'serendipity' was coined by Horace Walpole, Earl of Orford, in a letter he wrote in January 1754. He defined serendipity as the making of '.discoveries, by accidents and sagacity, of things which [you] were not in quest of.you must observe that no discovery of a thing you are looking for comes under this description.' I would like to make the case that a children's hospital can be a superb setting in which to attempt this feat-to generate Serendipity. I would also like to convince you that this attribute is absolutely essential to providing the very best care for children.
Throughout its 100-year history of working to ensure that surgical patients receive safe, high-quality, cost-effective care, the American College of Surgeons has adhered to four key principles: (1) Set the standards to identify and set the highest clinical standards based on the collection of outcomes data and other scientific evidence that can be customized to each patient's condition so that surgeons can offer the right care, at the right time, in the right setting. (2) Build the right infrastructure to provide the highest quality care with surgical facilities having in place appropriate and adequate staffing levels, a reasonable mix of specialists, and the right equipment. Checklists and health information technology, such as the electronic health record, are components of this infrastructure. (3) Collect robust data so that surgical decisions are based on clinical data drawn from medical charts that track patients after discharge from the hospital. Data should be risk-adjusted and collected in nationally benchmarked registries to allow institutions to compare their care with other providers. (4) Verify processes and infrastructure by having an external authority periodically affirm that the right systems are in place at health care institutions, that outcomes are being measured and benchmarked, and that hospitals and providers are proactively responding to these findings.
PURPOSE A validated high fidelity simulation model would provide a safe environment to teach thoracoscopic EA/TEF repair to novices. The study purpose was to evaluate validity evidence for performance measures on an EA/TEF simulator.   METHODS IRB-exempt data were collected from 12 self-reported 'novice' and 8 'experienced' pediatric surgeons. Participants evaluated the EA/TEF repair simulator using survey ratings that were analyzed for test content validity evidence. Additionally, deidentified operative performances were videotaped and independently rated by two surgeons using the Objective Structured Assessment for Technical Skills (OSATS) instrument. Novice and experienced OSATS were compared with p<.05 significant.   RESULTS Participants had high overall simulator ratings. Internal structure was supported by high interitem consistency (慣=.95 and .96) and interrater agreement (ICC) [.52, .84] for OSATS ratings. Experienced surgeons performed at a significantly higher level than novices for all five primary and two supplemental OSATS items (p<.05).   CONCLUSION Favorable participant ratings indicate the simulator is relevant to clinical practice and valuable as a learning tool. Further, performance ratings can discriminate experienced and novice performances of EA/TEF repair. These findings support the use of the simulator for performance assessment, representing the first validated measures from a simulator intended for pediatric surgical training.
BACKGROUND Little data exists on temporal changes in the care of children with common surgical conditions. We hypothesized that an increasing proportion of procedures are performed at pediatric hospitals over time, and that outcomes are superior at these centers.   METHODS We conducted a retrospective cohort study using Washington State discharge records for children 0-17years old undergoing appendectomy (n=39,472) or pyloromyotomy (n=3,500). Pediatric hospitals were defined as centers with full-time pediatric surgeons. Outcomes were examined for two time periods (1987-2000, 2001-2009).   RESULTS From 1987 to 2009, the proportion of procedures performed at pediatric hospitals steadily increased. The percentage for appendectomies increased from 17% to 32%, and that for pyloromyotomies increased from 57% to 99%. For pyloromyotomy, care at a pediatric hospital was associated with decreased risk of postoperative complications (OR=0.36, p<0.001) for both time periods. Appendectomy outcomes did not differ significantly in the early time period, but in the later time period specialist care was associated with lower risk of complications in children <5years (OR=0.54, p=0.03).   CONCLUSION There has been a shift towards pediatric hospitals for certain procedures, with a widening disparity in outcomes for younger children. These results suggest that procedures in younger patients may best be performed by providers familiar with these patient populations.
PURPOSE We implemented and validated a linkage algorithm for cases in both the National Surgical Quality Improvement Program-Pediatric (NSQIP-Peds) and the Pediatric Health Information System (PHIS) to investigate healthcare utilization during the first post-operative year.   METHODS NSQIP-Peds and PHIS cases from our institution who were operated on between January 2010 and September 2011 were matched on gender and dates of birth, admission, and discharge. Rates of true matches were validated using medical records. We examined rates of emergency department (ED) visits, hospital readmissions, potentially preventable readmissions (PPR), and hospital charges within one year of the NSQIP-Peds encounter.   RESULTS Of the 2,409 NSQIP-Peds and 61,147 PHIS records, 93.6% met match criteria with 92.5% being true matches. Post-operative ED visit rates were 7.8% within 30days, 17.2% between 31-180days, and 18.1% between 181-365days. Readmission rates were 5.5% within 30days, 9.3% between 31-180days, and 8.4% between 181-365days. In patients undergoing inpatient procedures, 10.6% had readmissions within 30days, and 23.7% had readmissions within 365days that were potentially preventable.   CONCLUSIONS Using indirect identifiers, a linked NSQIP-Peds-PHIS dataset demonstrated high rates of ED visits, readmissions, and PPR in the first post-operative year. This dataset may provide a more comprehensive way to study health care utilization and clinical outcomes.
BACKGROUND/PURPOSE Quality improvement (QI) is critical to enhancing patient care. It is necessary to prioritize which QI initiatives are relevant to one's institution and practice, as implementation is resource-intensive. We have developed and implemented a streamlined process to identify QI opportunities in our practice.   METHODS We designed a web-based Pediatric and Infant Case Log and Outcomes (PICaLO) instrument using Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) to record all surgical procedures for our practice. At the time of operation, a surgeon completes a case report form. An administrative assistant enters the data in PICaLO within 5-7days. Outcomes such as complications, deaths, and 'occurrences' (readmissions, reoperations, transfers to ICU, ER visit, additional clinic visits) are recorded at the time of encounter, during M & M Conferences, and during follow-up clinic visits. Variables were chosen and defined based on national standards from the American College of Surgeons (ACS) National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (NSQIP), and Patient Based Learning Log. Occurrences are queried for potential QI initiatives.   RESULTS In 2012, 3597 patients were entered, totaling 5177 procedures. There were 220 complications, 278 occurrences, and 16 deaths. Specific QI opportunities were identified and put into place.   CONCLUSION Data on procedures and outcomes can be collected effectively in a pediatric surgery practice to delineate pertinent QI initiatives. PICaLO is recognized by the American Board of Surgery as a mechanism to meet Maintenance of Certification 4 criteria.
BACKGROUND The Brain Trauma Foundation guidelines advocate for the use of intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring following traumatic brain injury (TBI) in patients with a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of 8 or less and an abnormal computed tomographic scan finding. The absence of 24-hour in-house neurosurgery coverage can negatively impact timely monitor placement. We reviewed the safety profile of ICP monitor placement by trauma surgeons trained and credentialed in their insertion by neurosurgeons.   METHODS In 2005, the in-house trauma surgeons at a Level I trauma center were trained and credentialed in the placement of ICP parenchymal monitors by the neurosurgeons. We abstracted all TBI patients who had ICP monitors placed during a 6-year period. Demographic information, Injury Severity Score (ISS), outcome, and monitor placement by neurosurgery or trauma surgery were identified. Misplacement, hemorrhage, infections, malfunctions, and dislodgement were considered complications. Comparisons were performed by  testing and Student's t tests.   RESULTS During the 6-year period, 410 ICP monitors were placed for TBI. The mean (SD) patient age was 40.9 (18.9) years, 73.7% were male, mean (SD) ISS was 28.3 (9.4), mean (SD) length of stay was 19 (16) days, and mortality was 36.1%. Motor vehicle collisions and falls were the most common mechanisms of injury (35.2% and 28.7%, respectively). The trauma surgeons placed 71.7 % of the ICP monitors and neurosurgeons for the remainder. The neurosurgeons placed most of their ICP monitors (71.8%) in the operating room during craniotomy. The overall complication rate was 2.4%. There was no significant difference in complications between the trauma surgeons and neurosurgeons (3% vs. 0.8%, p = 0.2951).   CONCLUSION After appropriate training, ICP monitors can be safely placed by trauma surgeons with minimal adverse effects. With current and expected specialty shortages, acute care surgeons can successfully adopt procedures such as ICP monitor placement with minimal complications.   LEVEL OF EVIDENCE Therapeutic/care management study, level IV.
AIM This paper reviews changes that are underway in postgraduate medical education in various European countries. Training in the workplace is a very effective way of learning, but it has many imperfections. Changes in in-training assessment are proposed to remedy some of these.   ASSESSMENT TOOLS The focus is on a set of assessment tools for performance in authentic work-based contexts. These tools include direct performance measures of single clinical events (mini-Clinical Evaluation Exercise, Direct Observation of Practical Skills, Objective Structured Assessment of Technical Skills, Case-based Discussion, Mini-Peer Assessment Tool) and performance measures over a period of time (Multi-Source Feedback), based on judgement by one or more knowledgeable assessors (supervisor, other healthcare professional, patient, trainee himself/herself). Quantitative and qualitative information from single assessments is first and foremost used to promote learning, but also aggregated across a large sample of contexts and assessors in order to obtain an overall picture of a trainee's progress. Aggregating instruments, such as the portfolio, can be used to collect, support and assess outcomes in terms of competencies achieved. We will describe this set of instruments and provide theoretical background as well as our own practical experiences.   DISCUSSION A central message is that the utility of assessment methods lies very much in the (understanding of) the users. Therefore, our concern is more with the actual implementation of change than with the assessment technology per se. If we fail in our efforts to implement real change, postgraduate education may be at risk for bureaucratization and trivialization. We nevertheless are excited to see change happening in the right direction, but remain patient, not expecting very quick wins.
Critical review of the close marking system used in the Fellowship Examination revealed that minor modifications to the way in which it was employed could significantly improve the quality (reliability and validity) of the examination. In addition, it could provide better information for the specialty courts to use during their discussion of the borderline candidate at their mini-court meetings. An expanded close marking system (ECMS) probably has little impact on the overall pass rate, but it does improve the ability to determine the marginal candidate. In addition, it has the capacity to provide feedback on examiner performance and provides the specialty courts with a tool to assess the quality of their questions. Analysis of data collected during several 'live trials' of ECMS has shown that the implementation of the ECMS represents a further improvement in the processes around the Fellowship Examination.
Introduction of an increasingly competence-based Royal Australasian College of Surgeons (RACS) Surgical Education and Training (SET) programme has influenced the nature and conduct of the Fellowship Examination (FEX). The FEX is the final summative assessment taken near the completion of SET training, and is aligned to the other SET assessment processes. It mainly tests two of the nine RACS surgical competencies, focusing on professional judgement and the clinical application of knowledge. It is used to help determine whether candidates are safe to practise unsupervised at consultant level. There have been refinements to a number of the processes including standard setting, blueprinting, developing marking descriptors and improving the reliability and validity of the examination. An Examiners' Training Course has also been introduced.
BACKGROUND Patient care revenue is becoming an increasingly important source of funding to support the academic surgery department missions of research and education. Transparency regarding productivity metrics will improve clinical productivity among members of an academic surgical practice.   STUDY DESIGN Clinical productivity-related data were collected and compared between 2 time periods. Data were stratified by pretransparency and post-transparency time periods. Comparisons were made using the Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test, and p values 0.05 were considered significant.   RESULTS The faculty compensation plan remained the same across both time periods; faculty members were paid a base salary plus practice plan income based on individual collections minus practice overhead and academic program support taxes. Before 2006, clinical productivity data were not made public among faculty members. In 2006, the departmental leadership developed a physician scorecard that led to transparency with regard to productivity. After publication of the scorecard, clinical productivity increased, as did the number of partners producing a threshold number of work relative value units (RVU) (6,415 wRVU혻= 1.0 full time equivalent [FTE]). This occurred during a time of reduced collections per RVU. There was no change in the work assignments (percent effort for clinical service, research, and teaching) for the physicians between the 2 time periods, or the overall effort assigned to the Veterans Affairs hospital.   CONCLUSIONS Clinical productivity can be improved by making productivity metrics transparent among faculty members. Additional measures must be taken to ensure that research and teaching activities are appropriately incentivized.
BACKGROUND The approach for staging gastric adenocarcinoma (GC) has not been well defined, with heterogeneity in the application of staging modalities.   METHODS Utilizing a RAND/UCLA appropriateness methodology (RAM), a multidisciplinary expert panel of 16 physicians scored 84 GC staging scenarios. Appropriateness was scored from 1 to 9. Median appropriateness scores from 1 to 3 were considered inappropriate, 4-6 uncertain, and 7-9 appropriate. Agreement was reached when 12 or more of 16 panelists scored the scenario similarly. Appropriate scenarios were subsequently scored for necessity.   RESULTS Pretreatment TNM stage determination is necessary. Necessary staging maneuvers include esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD); biopsy of the tumor; documentation of tumor size, description, location, distance from gastroesophageal junction (GEJ), and any GEJ, esophageal, or duodenal involvement; if an EGD report is unclear, surgeons should repeat it to confirm tumor location. Pretreatment radiologic assessment should include computed tomography (CT)-abdomen and CT-pelvis, performed with multidetector CT scanners with 5-mm slices. Laparoscopy should be performed before resection of cT3-cT4 lesions or multivisceral resections. Laparoscopy should include inspection of the stomach, diaphragm, liver, and ovaries.   CONCLUSIONS Using a RAM, we describe appropriate and necessary staging tests for the pretreatment staging evaluation of GC, as well as how some of these staging maneuvers should be conducted.
Management of antiplatelet therapy in patients with cardiac stents who need subsequent surgery is complex. Current guidelines recommend delaying elective surgery or, if surgery is emergent, proceeding without aspirin cessation. This study assessed provider knowledge, attitudes, and practices for patients with cardiac stents needing subsequent surgery. A national survey was administered to Veterans Administration surgeons, anesthesiologists, and cardiologists. Questions examined guideline awareness and agreement, perceptions of bleeding risk and stent thrombosis, practice patterns for antiplatelet therapy management, and experience with perioperative stent thrombosis. Chi-square tests and generalized estimating equations were used to examine differences in reported practices. Among 295 respondents, guideline awareness (92%) and agreement (93%) were high but higher among cardiologists and anesthesiologists than surgeons. Guideline agreement and personal experience with stent thrombosis were also associated with reported practice patterns. In adjusted models for early surgeries, cardiologists and anesthesiologists were more likely to report continuation of dual therapy as compared with surgeons regardless of stent type (drug-eluting P = 0.03; bare metal P < 0.01). Despite successful guideline adoption, significant variations in practice patterns by provider type were found. Understanding reasons behind the variation and outcomes of various antiplatelet management strategies are important steps in optimizing care of patients with coronary stents undergoing noncardiac surgery.
The Fellowship Examination is the final summative assessment before the Surgical Education and Training trainees are awarded Fellowship of the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons. Conducted in nine specialties, it is aligned with the curriculum of each specialty training programme. The Fellowship Examination focuses on specific surgical competencies; in particular, the clinical application of knowledge, operative decision making and professional judgement. As a true 'exit' examination, it has to be conducted at the correct cognitive level for surgeons about to enter practice without direct supervision. This requires examiners to have specific skills and expertise for which training is required. This paper outlines the process of training undertaken by newly appointed examiners, and describes some of the areas of knowledge that they have to master before examining at the consistently high level that is now expected.
International elective rotations are becoming increasingly common in residency training programs. These experiences offer a tremendous opportunity to help patients in medically underserved nations, and can enhance training by exposing participants to pathology not often encountered in developed countries. Additionally, there is emerging evidence that international training exposure develops a broader appreciation of cultural diversity in patient care, offers personal and professional development, and teaches residents to use limited resources more efficiently, giving them a unique perspective on the ordering of tests and delivery of care when they return. This paper highlights the author's experience on a volunteer trip to Ghana that was focused on treating pediatric spinal deformity, and reviews notable international medical volunteers, and highlights the evidence supporting the benefits of international residency rotations.
OBJECTIVES To define current patterns of flexible (part-time) surgical training in Australasia, determine supply and demand for part-time positions, and identify work-related factors motivating interest in flexible training.   DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS All Royal Australasian College of Surgeons trainees (n = 1191) were surveyed in 2010. Questions assessed demographic characteristics and working patterns, interest in flexible training, work-related fatigue and work-life balance preferences.   MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Interest in part-time training, and work-related factors motivating this interest.   RESULTS Of the 1191 trainees, 659 responded (response rate, 55.3%). Respondents were representative of all trainees in terms of specialty and sex. The median age of respondents was 32 2013s, and 187 (28.4%) were female. Most of the 659 respondents (627, 95.1%) were in full-time clinical training; only two (0.3%) were in part-time clinical training, and 30 (4.6%) were not in active clinical training. An interest in part-time training was reported by 208 respondents (31.6%; 54.3% of women v 25.9% of men; P < 0.001). Trainees expressing an interest in part-time training were more likely to report that fatigue impaired their performance at work and limited their social or family life, and that they had insufficient time in life for things outside surgical training, including study or research (P < 0.05).   CONCLUSIONS There is a striking mismatch between demand for flexible surgical training and the number of trainees currently in part-time training positions in Australia and New Zealand. Efforts are needed to facilitate part-time surgical training.
BACKGROUND Determining admission criteria to select candidates most likely to succeed in surgical training in Australia and New Zealand has been an imprecise art with little empirical evidence informing decisions. Selection to the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons' Surgical Education and Training programme is based entirely on applicants' performance in structured curriculum vitae (CV), referees' reports and interviews. This retrospective review compared General Surgery (GS) trainees' performance in selection with subsequent performance in assessments during training.   METHODS Data from three cohorts of GS trainees were sourced. Scores for four selection items were compared with scores from six training assessments. Interrelationships within each of the sets of selection and assessment variables were determined.   RESULTS A single significant relationship was found between scores on the three selection tools. High scores in the CV did not correlate with higher scores in any subsequent assessments. The structured referee report score, multi-station interview score and total selection score all correlated with performance in subsequent work-based assessments and examinations. Direct observation of procedural skills (DOPS) scores appear to reflect increasing acquisition of operative skills. Performance in mini clinical examinations (Mini-CEX) was variable, perhaps reflecting limitations of this assessment. Candidates who perform well in one examination tend to perform well in all three examinations.   CONCLUSIONS No selection tool demonstrated strong relationships with scores in all subsequent assessments; however referee reports, multi-station interviews and total selection scores are indicators for performance in particular assessments. This may engender confidence that candidates admitted into the GS training programme are likely to progress successfully through the programme.
Contemporary surgeons are expected to develop and maintain competence across a range of skills far broader than that demanded of last century's surgeons. This is increasingly difficult to achieve in a competitive clinical environment in which the effectiveness of the traditional apprenticeship model can be compromised. New training paradigms must be found to ensure that the quality of surgical training is maintained and enhanced. Acquiring technical skills in the operating theatre is expensive, but training using simulations in the skills laboratory is gaining credibility and validity as a means to augment the clinical experience and accelerate training. The emerging role of surgical skills courses extends to training in behaviour and attitude. At the same time, there is a rapidly growing demand for training courses in technical surgical skills, particularly from prevocational trainees aspiring to enter surgical training. This group has been neglected by the new Surgical Education and Training programme, and re-engagement with them is now a priority. Most skills courses rely on surgeons willing to teach pro bono, and paying tutors would impose a significant additional cost on surgical training. However, recruiting enough fellows to meet the demand for tutors remains a challenge. The Royal Australasian College of Surgeons is actively engaged in supporting and developing skills training courses and programmes to address the range of skills required for surgical competence.
BACKGROUND The Intercollegiate Surgical Curriculum Programme was launched in the United Kingdom in 2007. At its heart was the reliance upon clear, defined curricula, competence-based training and the use of workplace-based assessments to assess the competence. The principle assessments used were Case-based Discussion, Procedure-based Assessments (PBA), Direct Observation of Procedural Skills, and Clinical Evaluation Exercise and a Multisource Feedback tool.   METHODS We report the initial experience with that system, and most importantly, the experience with workplace-based assessment.   RESULTS Themes include issues around faculty development, misuse of assessments, inappropriate timing of assessments, concerns about validity and reliability of the assessments and concerns about the actual process of workplace-based assessments. Of the assessments, the PBA performed best.   CONCLUSIONS As a consequence, there has been an increased focus upon faculty development, while some of the assessments have been redesigned in line with the PBA. A global rating scale has been introduced that uses clinical anchors. The rating scales have also been altered with a reduction in the number of ratings while an enhanced description of the complexity of the case has been introduced within the Case-based Discussion and the Clinical Evaluation Exercise. A re-evaluation will take place in the near future.
BACKGROUND Live case demonstrations (LCDs) represent a common educational method throughout most surgical specialties. Concern has been raised about ethics and patient safety. The surgeon's elevated stress level, the need to comply with the meetings' time schedules, unfamiliar surgical equipment, and questionable indications resulted in prohibition of LCD in some surgical societies. We aimed to investigate the opinion of International Pediatric Endosurgery Group (IPEG) members on LCD.   MATERIALS AND METHODS An online-based survey in 2010-2011 requested all IPEG members to complete a questionnaire including data on personal background and statements on LCD. Participants had to indicate agreement with statements on a scale from 1 (do not agree) to 5 (fully agree).   RESULTS Sixty-one surgeons and 148 attendees completed the questionnaire. Eighty-three percent of surgeons indicated elevated stress levels during LCD. Surgeons (3짹1.2) and attendees (3짹1.4) agreed that LCD may be harmful. Surgeons (2짹1.2) and attendees (2짹1.3) disagreed that LCD may be beneficial for patients. However, LCD was rated as educationally essential by surgeons (3짹1.3) and attendees (3짹1.3). Surgeons agreed (3짹1.2) that educational benefits of LCD outweigh disadvantages for patients; attendees did not agree (2짹1.3). Surgeons (4짹1.4) and attendees (3짹1.4) agreed that LCD should continue. Nevertheless, 36% of surgeons and 52% of attendees would not consent for LCD in their own child.   CONCLUSIONS LCD is regarded an essential part of surgical education by IPEG members. However, it represents a controversial topic. The majority of IPEG members appear willing to continue LCD. If IPEG decides to go on with LCD, attention has to be drawn to patient safety and ethical considerations.
BACKGROUND The effect of acute partial sleep deprivation on surgical proficiency is still controversially discussed. The present study correlated physiological parameters of fatigue with objective technical and cognitive skills, as well as subjective sleepiness of surgical residents. The aim of the study was to assess the effect of acute partial sleep deprivation on surgical performance.   METHODS Thirty-eight surgeons were interviewed on three consecutive mornings: prior to a 24 h call, post-call, and after 24 h of rest. Reported hours of sleep were recorded. Subjective alertness was assessed with the standardized Stanford-Sleepiness-Scale (SSS). Saliva cortisol concentrations and pupillary activity were measured by standardized ELISA and pupillography. The virtual reality (VR)-simulator LapSim was used to assess technical skills through low-fidelity VR-tasks ('cutting,' 'clip applying') and cognitive skills through high-fidelity VR-tasks ('intracorporeal suturing,' 'VR-cholecystectomy'). Objective alertness was measured by the standardized d2-Paper-Pencil Test.   RESULTS Recorded hours of sleep (p = 0.001) and subjective alertness (SSS) decreased (p = 0.001) significantly post-call. None of the three factors studied-saliva cortisol concentration (p = 0.313), pupillary activity (p = 0.998), or VR-performance of low-fidelity VR-tasks-differed significantly between assessments. Surprisingly, VR-performance of high-fidelity VR-tasks (error-score p = 0.044, time to complete task p = 0.0001, economy of instrument motion p = 0.0001) and objective alertness (d2-Paper-Pencil Test p = 0.027) significantly improved in the post-call setting.   CONCLUSIONS Acute call-associated fatigue seems to be a predominantly subjective perception. Physiological factors seem to outbalance an anticipated fatigue-associated impairment of technical performances within low-fidelity VR-tasks. In surgical residents, acute partial sleep deprivation seems to have a positive short-term effect on cognitive skills, leading to enhanced technical performance and increased objective alertness within complex tasks.
OBJECTIVE To characterize factors that surgeons perceive as affecting selection of procedures designed to treat hypopharyngeal obstruction in adults with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and to compare those factors among 2 groups of American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery (AAO-HNS) member surgeons.   STUDY DESIGN Cross-sectional online survey.   SUBJECTS AND METHODS AAO-HNS members with a self-identified subspecialty interest either in sleep medicine or general otolaryngology were asked to complete an online survey, each respondent rated (5-point Likert scale) the perceived quality of their education and training and the role of specific factors in selection, both for procedure categories (eg, all hypopharyngeal) and individual procedures. Responses were examined for the entire group and for subgroups.   RESULTS Response rate was 27% (163/610). Sixty-five percent of respondents rated their surgical OSA education and training during postgraduate continuing medical education (CME) courses as of high quality, compared with 39% for residency/fellowship and 4% for medical school (P < 0.01). For individual hypopharyngeal procedures, over 40% of respondents reported limited training (except for tongue radiofrequency), and over 30% raised concerns about scientific evidence and reimbursement. Surgeon personal experience suggested treatment benefits without clearly favoring individual procedures. Respondents noted that patients were reluctant to undergo procedures, despite treatment recommendations, particularly maxillomandibular advancement. The sleep medicine subgroup reported higher ratings for education and training quality, research evidence, and personal experience with hypopharyngeal procedures. Concerns about adequate education and training, the quality of research evidence, and reimbursement issues were major factors in procedure selection.   CONCLUSION Multiple factors affect procedure selection. Surgeons identify concerns regarding education and training and research evidence.
BACKGROUND Simulation-based training can improve technical and nontechnical skills in surgery. To date, there is no consensus on the principles for design, validation, and implementation of a simulation-based surgical training curriculum. The aim of this study was to define such principles and formulate them into an interoperable framework using international expert consensus based on the Delphi method.   METHODS Literature was reviewed, 4 international experts were queried, and consensus conference of national and international members of surgical societies was held to identify the items for the Delphi survey. Forty-five international experts in surgical education were invited to complete the online survey by ranking each item on a Likert scale from 1 to 5. Consensus was predefined as Cronbach's 慣 0.80. Items that 80% of experts ranked as 4 were included in the final framework.   RESULTS Twenty-four international experts with training in general surgery (n = 11), orthopaedic surgery (n = 2), obstetrics and gynecology (n = 3), urology (n = 1), plastic surgery (n = 1), pediatric surgery (n = 1), otolaryngology (n = 1), vascular surgery (n = 1), military (n = 1), and doctorate-level educators (n = 2) completed the iterative online Delphi survey. Consensus among participants was achieved after one round of the survey (Cronbach's 慣 = 0.91). The final framework included predevelopment analysis; cognitive, psychomotor, and team-based training; curriculum validation evaluation and improvement; and maintenance of training.   CONCLUSIONS The Delphi methodology allowed for determination of international expert consensus on the principles for design, validation, and implementation of a simulation-based surgical training curriculum. These principles were formulated into a framework that can be used internationally across surgical specialties as a step-by-step guide for the development and validation of future simulation-based training curricula.
OBJECTIVE To assess, a year after the deployment of the check-list in the centre hospitalier Lyon Sud (CHLS - HCL), the perception of medical and nursing staff regarding the advantages of the check-list and its level of integration within the overall organization of the operating room.   TYPE OF STUDY Descriptive study, questionnaires and audits.   MATERIALS AND METHODS Distribution of individual questionnaires to the entire operating room staff, and observational audits in the operating room, to objectively assess the quality of implementation of the check-list (level II of the HAS - French National Autority of Health).   RESULTS The medical and nursing staff participated equally in using the check-list. This was derived from the individual questionnaires and reinforced by the observational audit; they also revealed an uneven implementation of the three phases, with phase 3 almost never performed. In two-third of the cases, the time-out requirements did not comply with HAS instructions. Nurses and physicians perceived the check-list differently. Even though they agreed that the check-list should be a team effort and is useful, nurses noted a lack of investment and leadership from doctors, in addition to communication problems, which led to a feeling of disrespect towards them when they play the role of the check-list coordinator.   CONCLUSION The questionnaire and the audit of practice showed strong adherence to the concept in that the surgical check-list was considered useful by all staff. However, it was also considered to be an added formality and its full implementation was rare in practice. There was a problem of distribution and acceptance of roles with nurses often observing that they were the only ones strictly following the check-list due to a lack of medical investment.
BACKGROUND Many patients scheduled for elective surgery are referred for a preoperative medical consultation. Only limited data are available on factors associated with preoperative consultations. The authors hypothesized that surgical specialty contributes to variation in referrals for preoperative consultations.   METHODS This is a cohort study using data from Group Health Cooperative, an integrated healthcare system. The authors included 13,673 patients undergoing a variety of common procedures-primarily low-risk surgeries-representing six surgical specialties, in 2005-2006. The authors identified consultations by family physicians, general internists, pulmonologists, or cardiologists in the 42 days preceding surgery. Multivariable logistic regression was used to estimate the association between surgical specialty and consultation, adjusting for potential confounders including the revised cardiac risk index, age, gender, Deyo comorbidity index, number of prescription medications, and 11 medication classes.   RESULTS The authors found that 3,063 (22%) of all patients had preoperative consultations, with significant variation by surgical specialty. Patients having ophthalmologic, orthopedic, or urologic surgery were more likely to have consultations compared with those having general surgery-adjusted odds ratios (95% CI) of 3.8 (3.3-4.2), 1.5 (1.3-1.7), and 2.3 (1.8-2.8), respectively. Preoperative consultations were more common in patients with lower revised cardiac risk scores.   CONCLUSION There is substantial practice variation among surgical specialties with regard to the use of preoperative consultations in this integrated healthcare system. Given the large number of consultations provided for patients with low cardiac risk and for patients presenting for low-risk surgeries, their indications, the financial burden, and cost-effectiveness of consultations deserve further study.
BACKGROUND Offering a drug-drug interaction (DDI) checker on-demand instead of computer-triggered alerts is a strategy to avoid alert fatigue.   OBJECTIVE The purpose was to determine the use of such an on-demand tool, implemented in the clinical information system for inpatients.   METHODS The study was conducted at the University Hospital Zurich, an 850-bed teaching hospital. The hospital-wide use of the on-demand DDI checker was measured for prescribers and consulting pharmacologists. The number of DDIs identified on-demand was compared to the number that would have resulted by computer-triggering and this was compared to patient-specific recommendations by a consulting pharmacist.   RESULTS The on-demand use was analyzed during treatment of 64,259 inpatients with 1,316,884 prescriptions. The DDI checker was popular with nine consulting pharmacologists (648 checks/consultant). A total of 644 prescribing physicians used it infrequently (eight checks/prescriber). Among prescribers, internists used the tool most frequently and obtained higher numbers of DDIs per check (1.7) compared to surgeons (0.4). A total of 16,553 DDIs were identified on-demand, i.e., <10혻% of the number the computer would have triggered (169,192). A pharmacist visiting 922 patients on a medical ward recommended 128 adjustments to prevent DDIs (0.14 recommendations/patient), and 76혻% of them were applied by prescribers. In contrast, computer-triggering the DDI checker would have resulted in 45 times more alerts on this ward (6.3 alerts/patient).   CONCLUSIONS The on-demand DDI checker was popular with the consultants only. However, prescribers accepted 76혻% of patient-specific recommendations by a pharmacist. The prescribers' limited on-demand use indicates the necessity for developing improved safety concepts, tailored to suit these consumers. Thus, different approaches have to satisfy different target groups.
BACKGROUND In order to understand how current surgical residents feel about their training, a survey focused on perceptions regarding early entry into a subspecialty and the adequacy of training was sent to selected residency programs in general surgery (GS).   STUDY DESIGN A 36-item online anonymous survey was sent to the program directors of 55 GS programs. The national sample consisted of 1,515 PGY 1 to PGY 5 categorical residents.   RESULTS The response rate was 45%. Overall, 80% were planning on pursuing a fellowship. The majority (63%) believed that the Residency Review Committee for Surgery and the American Board of Surgery should consider the shift to early subspecialty training. Almost 70% of respondents preferred a 3-year basic track followed by a 3-year subspecialty track. In response to the survey item, 'Do you think a 5-year GS residency fully prepares you to practice GS?', 38% of residents overall responded 'no' or 'unsure.' This figure decreased with each increasing year of residency training, from PGY 1 (53.3%) to PGY 5 (23%). Finally, 71% of residents who answered 'no' or 'unsure' to the above question believe there should be a change to a track system.   CONCLUSIONS The choice of fellowship training for 80% of trainees partially reflects that 38% are not confident about their skills with 5 years of training in GS, including 23% of graduating chief residents. Training and certifying groups should update and strengthen the current curriculum for categorical residents in GS and continue their efforts to offer shortened independent or integrated residency training for those who will enter surgical specialties. Innovative solutions are needed to solve the logistic and financial problems involved.
IMPORTANCE Analyses of volume-outcome relationships in adult surgery have found that hospital and physician characteristics affect patient outcomes, such as length of stay, hospital charges, complications, and mortality. Similar investigations in children's surgical specialties are fewer in number, and their conclusions are less clear.   OBJECTIVE To review the evidence regarding surgeon or hospital experience and their influence on outcomes in children's surgery.   EVIDENCE REVIEW A MEDLINE and EMBASE search was conducted for English-language studies published from January 1, 1980, through April 13, 2012. Titles and abstracts were screened in a standardized manner by 2 reviewers. Studies selected for inclusion had to use a measure of hospital or surgeon experience as a predictor variable and had to report postoperative outcomes as dependent response variables. Included studies were reviewed with regard to methodologic quality, and study results were extracted.   FINDINGS Sixty-three studies were reviewed. Significant heterogeneity was detected in exposure definitions, outcome measures, and risk adjustment, with the greatest heterogeneity seen in appendectomy studies. Various exposure levels were examined: hospital level in 48 (68%) studies, surgeon level in 11 (17%), and both in 9 (14%). Nineteen percent of studies did not adjust for confounding, and 57% did not adjust for sample clustering. The most consistent methods and reproducible results were seen in the pediatric cardiac surgical literature. Forty-nine studies (78%) showed positive correlation between experience and most primary outcomes, but differences in outcomes and exposure definitions made comparisons between studies difficult. In general, hospital-level factors tended to correlate with outcomes for high-complexity procedures, whereas surgeon-level factors tended to correlate with outcomes for more common procedures.   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Data on experience-related outcomes in children's surgery are limited in number and vary widely in methodologic quality. Future studies should seek both to standardize definitions, making results more applicable, and to differentiate procedures affected by surgeon experience from those more affected by hospital resources and system-level variables.
BACKGROUND A relationship between higher volume providers and improved outcomes has been suggested by some studies and has been used to construct guidelines for many diseases. For gastric cancer (GC), however, optimal volume cutoffs are not clear.   METHODS A multidisciplinary expert panel of 16 physicians from 6 countries scored 120 scenarios regarding provider characteristics for gastric resections for GC. Appropriateness of scenarios was scored from 1 (highly inappropriate) to 9 (highly appropriate). Median appropriateness scores from 1 to 3 were considered inappropriate, 4 to 6 uncertain, and 7 to 9 appropriate. Agreement was reached when 12 of 16 panelists scored the statement similarly. Appropriate scenarios agreed on were scored subsequently for necessity.   RESULTS Surgeon and hospital practice volume scenarios were evaluated. The panel felt it was inappropriate for surgeons doing 2 GC cases per year to perform a multivisceral resection (MVR), D2 lymphadenectomy (D2-LND), or laparoscopic total gastrectomy, and 6 GC cases per year for an MVR involving a pancreatoduodenectomy (MVR-PD), or endoscopic mucosal resections (EMR). It was considered appropriate for surgeons doing 11 GC cases per year to perform open gastrectomy or D2-LND, and 20 GC cases per year for any MVR, laparoscopic gastrectomy, or EMR. For hospitals, it was considered inappropriate for hospitals managing 4 GC cases per year to perform D2-LND or laparoscopic total gastrectomy, and 10 GC cases per year, for MVR-PD or EMR. Hospital volumes 21 cases per year was considered appropriate for any GC procedure. It was inappropriate for an MVR to be performed in a hospital without interventional radiology services and for a MVR-PD in a hospital with no level I intensive care unit.   CONCLUSION Appropriate and inappropriate provider volumes for a variety of gastric procedures have been defined by an international expert panel.
In recent years, working time restrictions and a restructuring of postgraduate surgical training have resulted in increased reliance on emergency cross-cover (ECC)--the provision of emergency care by a doctor trained or training in a different specialty to that which they are requested to assess or manage. There are increasing concerns surrounding the provision of ECC, particularly regarding appropriate supervision of trainees and in turn their competence, experience and confidence in dealing with surgical problems of outside their own specialty. Surgical training has failed to keep pace with workforce changes and in this document we outline the key principles of providing safe ECC. In particular this includes the medico-legal implications of providing such cover outside a surgical trainee's normal area of practice, particularly without previous experience or means for regular skills practice and up-dating. We report the findings of an ASiT snapshot survey that demonstrates concerns surrounding existing cross-cover arrangements. Variable access to senior support, together with varied willingness to provide this, and a paucity of specific training opportunities for trainees required to provide cross-cover were highlighted. These have the potential to promote variability in patient care and resource use by those providing care outside of their usual specialty. This document provides consensus recommendations to address these issues, including clarification of curricula and improved provision of training for, and supervision of, trainees who are expected to deliver cross-cover.
AIM To investigate the degree to which specialisation or case-load of the surgeon is associated with the number of lymph nodes isolated from pathology specimens after right-sided hemicolectomy.   METHOD Data from 6 hospitals with well-defined catchment areas included in the Uppsala/횜rebro Regional Oncology Centre Colon Cancer Register 1997-2006 were used to assess 821 patients undergoing right-sided hemicolectomy for stages I-III colon cancer. Factors influencing the lymph node yield were evaluated.   RESULTS A surgeon with colorectal accreditation and a university pathology department were both associated with a significantly higher proportion of patients having 12 or more lymph nodes isolated from surgical specimens after right-sided hemicolectomy in both unadjusted and multivariate analyses. Emergency surgery did not affect the lymph node yield.   CONCLUSION The degree of specialisation of the surgeon influences the number of lymph nodes isolated from specimens obtained during routine right-sided colon cancer surgery.
BACKGROUND The European Vascular Surgeons in Training (EVST) were appointed by the European Society for Vascular Surgery to review the current status and developments regarding training and certification in vascular surgery (VS) across Europe.   METHODS An e-mail-based survey was distributed to EVST representatives in 33 countries. The questionnaire examined the current structure of vascular surgery training and certification (monospecialty, subspecialty, no specialty), as well as the evolving revisions of national curricula. Questionnaires were returned from 31 countries, two of which implement two training models.   RESULTS Vascular surgery (VS) as a monospecialty is the leading training model in 18 out of 31 countries, nine countries follow the subspecialty model, and six countries have no accredited vascular programs. The mean duration of dedicated VS training in monospecialty is significantly longer compared with subspecialty (3.8 vs. 2.9 years, p혻=혻.036) or no specialty models (3.8 vs. 1 years, p혻<혻.001). 83% of countries implementing an independent certification have recently updated their training curriculum; the respective rates for countries implementing a subspecialty or no specialty model are 56% and 17%. Among countries that offer VS certification, the endovascular logbook is mandatory in 78%, quality control of training centers or trainers is implemented in 62%, and training centers are reported as heterogeneous in 46%. The Working Time Directive is followed by vascular trainees in 10/24 EU countries.   CONCLUSIONS The results of this survey represent the most updated detailed record of the European training profiles in VS and document the diversity of vascular training across Europe.
Assessment of surgeon's influence on the results of cancer surgery is complex. Investigation field is extremely large and should differentiate surgeon's impact from the one of surgery. This can result in major differences in the rate of postoperative complications and deaths, in the indication and use of technically difficult surgeries, and also in long-term results. The surgeon's impact is correlated with his activity volume for each type of major procedures and is independent from hospital activity volume. It persists independently of major progresses in hospital organization and process standardization. Data from the literature confirm the prognosis importance of the surgeon in cancer outcome. In the future, the timely implementation of established, evidence-based guidelines and checklists programs could prevent large number of deaths and complications and reduce the surgeon specific impact.
INTRODUCTION There is a lack information regarding how sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) for breast cancer is carried out today in developing countries and how it was adapted. To rectify this situation we performed a pattern-of-practice survey amongst practicing surgeons in Latin America (LA).   METHODS A survey was developed to assess current surgical practice in breast cancer, use of SLNB, limitations to the implementation, training, technique variations, and observed adverse events. A total of 30 surgical associations and breast surgery societies in 18 Latin American countries were invited to participate. Surveys were distributed among member of these associations and 76.7 % of those contacted answered the survey. Responses were limited only to those who reported treating breast cancer patients.   RESULTS A total of 463 surgeons who manage breast cancer responded. Over 53 % of surgeons do not have sub-specialty training. Only 47.7 % have a high-volume case load, of which 87.8 % routinely perform SLNB. The main limitations perceived to the implementation of SLNB were a lack of resources/equipment (48 %) and training opportunities (33 %). Over 60 % reported that fewer than half of their patients were eligible for SLNB and 67.8 % reported that they were involved in teaching this technique to residents.   CONCLUSIONS A significant proportion of surgeons that treat breast cancer cases in LA have not had sub-specialty training or manage a low volume of cases. Among those surgeons with a high-volume caseload, SLNB is routinely performed. SLNB training during residency represents an opportunity for improvement in the region.
BACKGROUND Previous studies on surgical team composition have shown that surgical team size had an independent impact on surgical performance in US and Canadian hospitals. We aimed to investigate the impact of team composition on surgical performance in two Chinese hospitals.   METHODS General surgery procedures performed from April 2011 to June 2012 were retrospectively reviewed to record the number of attendees in the operating room (OR) and the procedure time (PT).   RESULTS A total of 1,900 valid procedures, mostly laparoscopic, were performed during the study period. The mean PT was 90.5 min. On average, there were a total of 6 (range = 3-8) team members per procedure: 3 (range = 1-5) surgeons, 2 nurses, and 1 anesthesiologist. Unlike the data reported for the US and Canada, the number of nurses and anesthesiologists remained stable in most cases, whereas the number of surgeons differed by procedure. Multiple-regression analysis revealed that both the complexity of the operation and the team size significantly affected PT. When procedure complexity and patient condition were kept constant, adding one team member in our data analysis predicted an increase of 34.7 min in the PT.   CONCLUSION The surgical team size has a measurable effect on PT. Aside from surgical complexity, the team composition and member stability affected PT in the OR. Optimizing surgical teams and developing a strategy to maintain team stability are of great importance for improving OR efficiency.
BACKGROUND The current economic environment necessitates efforts to prevent avoidable losses in clinical revenue in academic cardiothoracic surgery programs. Inadequate documentation frequently results in delayed, denied, or reduced reimbursement. With the recent increase in integrated residency programs, documentation and compliance are becoming increasingly dependent on junior residents; however, their understanding of reimbursement and documentation guidelines is currently unknown.   METHODS An electronically distributed, multi-institutional survey of 6 general and subspecialty surgery programs was conducted consisting of open-ended numeric estimation of Medicare reimbursement for various levels of patient encounters. Closed-ended questions were used to assess resident knowledge of documentation requirements, accompanied by self-estimated compliance with those requirements.   RESULTS Thirty-seven percent (n = 106) of residents completed the survey. Most residents (77%) believe they play the primary role in documentation; however, knowledge of and compliance with higher level documentation practices range from 19% to 78% and 41% to 76%, respectively. On average, residents overestimate Medicare reimbursement of lower level encounters by as much as 77% and underestimate higher level encounters by as much as 38%. In many cases, the standard deviation of residents' estimates approaches the actual reimbursement value.   CONCLUSIONS Residents have a limited knowledge of documentation requirements. Self-reported compliance, even when guidelines are known, is low. Estimation of financial reimbursement is extremely variable. Residents overestimate reimbursement of lower level encounters and underappreciate reimbursement at higher levels. Ensuring appropriate reimbursement for services rendered will require formal cardiothoracic resident education and ongoing quality control.
PURPOSE To evaluate the impact of surgeon practice profile on clinic-based glaucoma care.   DESIGN Population-based study of glaucoma care patterns in Ontario, Canada from 2000-2010.   METHODS Using comprehensive physician services data from the Ontario Health Insurance Plan database, ophthalmologists were divided into 5 surgical practice subgroups. The role of each subgroup in the provision of glaucoma care was evaluated. Consultations and office visits were used to assess nonsurgical care, while laser trabeculoplasty procedures were used to assess clinic-based procedural care.   RESULTS Between 2000 and 2010, the population rate of glaucoma consultations and follow-up visits provided by ophthalmologists who do not perform incisional glaucoma surgery increased at average annual rates of 1.6% (P < .0002) and 3.3% (P < .0001), respectively. In contrast, no significant growth in the rate of glaucoma consultations or follow-up visits provided by glaucoma surgeons was observed (0.8%/year [P = .2] for consultations; 0.2%/year [P = .6] for follow-up visits). Between 2000 and 2010, the rate of laser trabeculoplasty procedures provided by ophthalmologists who do not perform incisional glaucoma surgery increased 19.3% annually (P < .0001), while growth among glaucoma surgeons was more modest (annual growth of 9.2% [P = .0002]).   CONCLUSIONS While subspecialization is a growing reality in most areas of medicine, we found that the provision of clinic-based glaucoma care remains dependent on ophthalmologists who do not perform incisional glaucoma surgery. With increasing focus on integrated care, these findings will have important implications for residency education programs and their accrediting bodies and will inform decisions of health care policymakers, hospitals, and academic departments.
Navy physicians, surgeons, and pharmacists, because of their knowledge of balneology and hydrotherapeutics in metropolitan France, played a key role in the history of the thermal waters of Reunion, discovered in the 19(th) century in Mafate, Cilaos, and Salazie.
BACKGROUND The aim of this study was to determine the risk of occupational musculoskeletal injury during a surgeon's career and the effects of these injuries for patients, providers, and institutions. We hypothesized that surgeons have occupational injuries, which affect work performance.   MATERIALS AND METHODS Electronic RedCAP surveys on workplace injury were distributed statewide via e-mail to the members of the Tennessee chapter of the American College of Surgeons. Descriptive statistics were used to analyze survey data.   RESULTS A total of 260 of 793 surveys (33%) were returned. Forty percent of surgeons sustained  1 injuries in the workplace. Although 50% of injured surgeons received medical care for their most recent injuries, only 20% of these injuries were reported to their institution. Twenty-two percent of injured surgeons missed work and 35% performed fewer operations while they were recovering from their injury. Fifty-three percent of injured surgeons reported that pain from their injury had a minimal or moderate effect on their performance in the operating room.   CONCLUSIONS Surgeons appear to be at moderate risk for occupation-related injuries. The low rate of institutional reporting for these injuries is concerning, as this is a required step to access institutional support once injured. Surgeon injury results in lost productivity due to missed workdays and may impact the quality of surgical care because of performance issues while recovering from injury.
Innovations are indispensable to the practice and advancement of pediatric surgery. Children represent a special type of vulnerable population and must be protected since they do not have legal capacity to consent, and their parent's judgment may be compromised in circumstances when the child is very ill or no adequate therapy exists. In an effort to protect patients, legislators could pass and enforce laws that prohibit or curtail surgical innovations and thus stifle noble advancement of the practice. The goals of this paper are, 1) To clearly define the characteristics of surgical innovation types so interventions may be classified into 1 of 3 distinct categories along a continuum: Practice Variation, Transition Zone, and Experimental Research, and 2) To propose a practical systematic method to guide surgeon decision-making when approaching interventions that fall into the 'Transition Zone' category on the Surgical Intervention Continuum. The ETHICAL model allows those that know the intricacies and nuances of pediatric surgery best, the pediatric surgeons and professional pediatric surgical societies, to participate in self-regulation of innovation in a manner that safeguards patients without stifling creativity or unduly hampering surgical progress.
BACKGROUND Creating a surgical specialty referral center requires a strong interest, expertise, and a market demand in that particular field, as well as some form of promotion. In 2004, we established a tertiary hernia referral center. Our goal in this study was to examine its impact on institutional volume and economics.   MATERIALS AND METHODS The database of all hernia repairs (2004-2011) was reviewed comparing hernia repair type and volume and center financial performance. The ventral hernia repair (VHR) patient subset was further analyzed with particular attention paid to previous repairs, comorbidities, referral patterns, and the concomitant involvement of plastic surgery.   RESULTS From 2004 to 2011, 4927 hernia repairs were performed: 39.3% inguinal, 35.5% ventral or incisional, 16.2% umbilical, 5.8% diaphragmatic, 1.6% femoral, and 1.5% other. Annual billing increased yearly from 7% to 85% and averaged 37% per year. Comparing 2004 with 2011, procedural volume increased 234%, and billing increased 713%. During that period, there was a 2.5-fold increase in open VHRs, and plastic surgeon involvement increased almost 8-fold, (P = .004). In 2005, 51 VHR patients had a previous repair, 27.0% with mesh, versus 114 previous VHR in 2011, 58.3% with mesh (P < .0001). For VHR, in-state referrals from 2004 to 2011 increased 340% while out-of-state referrals jumped 580%. In 2011, 21% of all patients had more than 4 comorbidities, significantly increased from 2004 (P = .02).   CONCLUSION The establishment of a tertiary, regional referral center for hernia repair has led to a substantial increase in surgical volume, complexity, referral geography, and financial benefit to the institution.
Alexis Carrel was a French surgeon in the 20th century. He made significant contributions to many advances in the fields of vascular surgery, cardiothoracic surgery and organ transplantation. He demonstrated that blood vessels can be united end-to-end and pioneered the triangulation suturing technique in vascular anastomosis. The methods he developed are still in use to this day. He insisted on the importance of absolute asepsis in vascular surgery when such practices were almost unheard of. He was also considered the father of solid organ transplantation. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in recognition of his work. Together with Charles Lindbergh, he developed the extracorporeal perfusion pump to keep organs alive outside the human body. His contribution to medicine also extended to tissue culture and wound management. He was one of the most controversial figures of his generation, believing in the idea of genetic superiority and eugenics and he was associated with fascism in the 1930s.
Surgeons frequently treat the consequences of self-harm. Self-harm is a common problem and presentations to Irish hospitals are increasing. It increases the risk of suicide and is associated with long term morbidity. Appropriate management can improve the prognosis. Surgeons require a number of skills to appropriately manage patients who self-harm. In this review we outline those skills including diagnosis, communication, capacity and risk assessment.
BACKGROUND Several studies have demonstrated better outcomes for carotid endarterectomy (CEA) at high-volume hospitals and providers. However, only a few studies have reported on the impact of surgeons' specialty and volume on the perioperative outcome of CEA.   METHODS This is a retrospective analysis of CEA during a recent 2-year period. Surgeons' specialties were classified according to their Board specialties into general surgeons (GS), cardiothoracic surgeons (CT), and vascular surgeons (VS). Surgeons' annual volume was categorized into low volume (<10 CEAs), medium volume (10 to <30 CEAs), and high volume (30 CEAs). The primary outcome was 30-day perioperative stroke and/or death; however, other perioperative complications were analyzed. Both univariate and multivariate analyses were done to predict the effect of specialty/volume and any other patient risk factors on stroke outcome.   RESULTS Nine hundred and fifty-three CEAs were performed by 24 surgeons: 122 by seven GS, 383 by 13 CT, and 448 by 4 VS. Patients' demographics/clinical characteristics were similar between specialties, except the incidence of coronary artery disease, which was higher for CT (P < .0001). The indications for CEA were symptomatic disease in 38% for VS, 31% for GS, and 23% for CT (P < .0001). The perioperative stroke and death rates were 4.1%, 2.9%, and 1.3% for GS, CT, and VS, respectively (P = .126). A subgroup analysis showed that the perioperative stroke rates for symptomatic patients were 5.3%, 2.3%, and 2.3% (P = .511) and for asymptomatic patients were 3.6%, 3%, and 0.72% (P = .099) for GS, CT, and VS, respectively. Perioperative stroke rates were significantly higher for nonvascular surgeons (GS and CT combined) vs VS in asymptomatic patients (3.2% vs 0.72%; P = .033). Perioperative stroke/death was also significantly lower for high-volume surgeons: 1.3% vs 4.1% and 4.3% for medium- and low-volume surgeons (P = .019) (1.3% vs 4.15% for high vs low/medium combined; P = .005). More CEAs were done for asymptomatic patients in the low/medium-volume surgeons (78%) vs high-volume surgeons (64%; P < .0001) with a stroke rate of 4.6% for low/medium-volume surgeons vs 0.51% for high-volume surgeons (P = .0005). A univariate logistic analysis showed that the odds ratio of having a perioperative stroke was 0.3 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.13-0.73; P =.008) for high-volume surgeons vs low/medium-volume surgeons, 0.4 (95% CI, 0.16-1.07; P = .069) for VS vs CT/GS and 0.2 (95% CI, 0.06-0.45; P = .0004) when patching was used. A multivariate analysis showed that the odds ratio of having a perioperative stroke for CT VS was 2.1 (95% CI, 0.71-5.92; P = .183); for GS vs VS, 1.8 (95% CI, 0.49-6.90; P = .3709); for low-volume surgeons (vs high-volume) 3.4 (95% CI, 0.96-11.77; P = .0581); medium- vs high-volume surgeons 2.2 (95% CI, 0.75-6.42; P = .1509).   CONCLUSIONS High-volume surgeons had significantly better perioperative stroke/death rates for CEA than low/medium-volume surgeons. Perioperative stroke/death rates were also higher for nonvascular surgeons in asymptomatic patients.
BACKGROUND The common goal of surgical training is to provide effective, well-rounded surgeons who are capable of providing a safe and competent service that is relevant to the society within which they work. In recent years, the surgical workforce crisis has gained greater attention as a component of the global human resources in health problems in low- and middle-income countries. The purpose of this study was to: (1) describe the models for specialist surgical training in Uganda; (2) evaluate the pretraining experience of surgical trainees; (3) explore training models in the United States and Canada and areas of possible further inquiry and intervention for capacity-building efforts in surgery and perioperative care.   METHODS This was a cross-sectional descriptive study conducted at Makerere University, College of Health Sciences during 2011-2012. Participants were current and recently graduated surgical residents. Data were collected using a pretested structured questionnaire and were entered and analyzed using an excel Microsoft spread sheet. The Makerere University, College of Health Sciences Institutional Review Board approved the study.   RESULTS Of the 35 potential participants, 23 returned the questionnaires (65 %). Mean age of participants was 29 years with a male/female ratio of 3:1. All worked predominantly in general district hospitals. Pretraining procedures performed numbered 2,125 per participant, which is twice that done by their US and Canadian counterparts during their entire 5-year training period.   CONCLUSIONS A rich pretraining experience exists in East Africa. This should be taken advantage of to enhance surgical specialist training at the institution and regional level.
In order to determine the frequency of respiratory symptoms among residents from surgical specialties dures exposed to the electrocautery smoke, a cross-sectional study was conducted in February 2012. 50 third-year residents from different surgical specialties coming from a third-level hospital belonging to the Institute of Security and Social Services of the State Workers in Jalisco, Mexico, were included. The subject selection was non-probabilistic. A questionnaire on respiratory symptoms developed in Cuba was used for data collection. The most common symptoms were sensation of a lump in the throat (58%), and a sore throat (22%). The specialty with the highest rate of exposure was neurosurgery (24.1 min/surgical procedure). All, the physicians from this specialty had respiratory symptoms. We conclude that the cauterization smoke may be considered a risk for developing respiratory symptoms among physicians with surgical specialties.
BACKGROUND Educational programmes are frequently developed to improve the knowledge of medical trainees. The impact of a programme may be limited if there is no follow-up to reinforce the message. Online Spaced Education (SE) has been developed to address this limitation. This study was performed to assess whether an SE programme would improve the impact of a didactic seminar.   METHOD A randomized trial of an online SE programme occurred as part of the 2010 Clinical Oncology Society of Australia Breast Cancer Trainee Workshop. Consenting participants were randomized to undertake SE or not and were then invited to undertake a 22-question knowledge test. A questionnaire was administered relating to the perceived value of the SE programme. Participants consisted largely of surgical and medical oncology trainees.   RESULTS Two hundred people attended the workshop and 97 consented to randomization. Thirty-eight of 49 randomized to the SE group commenced the SE course. Seventy-one percent of participants answered each question at least once and 55% of participants completed the entire programme. Fifty-nine participants completed the post-test. The SE participants performed significantly better than the control group (P < 0.05). The questionnaire was completed by 26 of the SE group. Ninety-two percent strongly agreed or agreed that SE would improve their practice and 96% agreed that SE effectively reinforced key aspects of workshop.   CONCLUSION This study demonstrates the utility of SE to increase knowledge retention following a face-to-face workshop. The programme was very well received by the participants and may be an appropriate reinforcing methodology for other similar seminars.
PURPOSE Surgical morbidity and mortality conferences (M&MCs) provide surgeons with an opportunity to confront medical errors, discuss adverse events, and learn from their mistakes. Yet, no standardized format for these conferences exists. The authors hypothesized that introducing a standardized presentation format using a validated framework would improve presentation quality and educational outcomes for all attendees.   METHOD Following a review of the literature and the solicitation of experts' opinions, the authors adapted a validated communication tool-the SBAR (Situation, Background, Assessment, Recommendations) framework. In 2010, they then introduced this novel standardized presentation format into the surgical M&MCs at the Oregon Health & Science University. The authors assessed three outcome measures--user satisfaction, presentation quality, and education outcomes--before and after implementation of their standardized presentation format.   RESULTS Over the six-month study period, residents delivered 66 presentations to 197 faculty, resident, and medical student attendees. Attendees' performance on the multiple-choice questionnaires improved after the intervention, indicating an improvement in their knowledge. Presentation quality also improved significantly after the intervention, according to evaluations by trained faculty assessors. They noted specific improvements in the quality of the Background, Assessment, and Recommendation sections.   CONCLUSIONS The M&MC plays a pivotal role in educating residents and improving patient safety. Standardizing the M&MC presentation format using an adapted SBAR framework improved the quality of residents' presentations and attendees' educational outcomes. The authors recommend using such a standardized presentation format to enhance the educational value of M&MCs, with the goal of improving surgeons' knowledge, skills, and patient care practices.
PURPOSE Safety culture may exert an important influence on the adoption and learning of patient safety practices by learners at clinical training sites. This study assessed students' perceptions of safety culture and identified curricular gaps in patient safety training.   METHOD A total of 170 fourth-year medical students at the University of California, San Francisco, were asked to complete a modified version of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Hospital Survey on Patient Safety Culture in 2011. Students responded on the basis of either their third-year internal medicine or surgery clerkship experience. Responses were recorded on a five-point Likert scale. Percent positive responses were compared between the groups using a chi-square test.   RESULTS One hundred twenty-one students (71% response rate) rated 'teamwork within units' and 'organizational learning' highest among the survey domains; 'communication openness' and 'nonpunitive response to error' were rated lowest. A majority of students reported that they would not speak up when witnessing a possible adverse event (56%) and were afraid to ask questions if things did not seem right (55%). In addition, 48% of students reported feeling that mistakes were held against them. Overall, students reported a desire for additional patient safety training to enhance their educational experience.   CONCLUSIONS Assessing student perceptions of safety culture highlighted important observations from their clinical experiences and helped identify areas for curricular development to enhance patient safety. This assessment may also be a useful tool for both clerkship directors and clinical service chiefs in their respective efforts to promote safe care.
BACKGROUND As patient-safety and quality efforts spread throughout health care, the need for physician involvement is critical, yet structured training programs during surgical residency are still uncommon. Our objective was to develop an extended quality-improvement curriculum for surgical residents that included formal didactics and structured practical experience.   METHODS Surgical trainees completed an 8-hour didactic program in quality-improvement methodology at the start of PGY3. Small teams developed practical quality-improvement projects based on needs identified during clinical experience. With the assistance of the hospital's process-improvement team and surgical faculty, residents worked through their selected projects during the following year. Residents were anonymously surveyed after their participation to assess the experience.   RESULTS During the first 3 years of the program, 17 residents participated, with 100% survey completion. Seven quality-improvement projects were developed, with 57% completing all DMAIC (Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve, Control) phases. Initial projects involved issues of clinical efficiency and later projects increasingly focused on clinical care questions. Residents found the experience educationally important (65%) and believed they were well equipped to lead similar initiatives in the future (70%). Based on feedback, the timeline was expanded from 12 to 24 months and changed to start in PGY2.   CONCLUSIONS Developing an extended curriculum using both didactic sessions and applied projects to teach residents the theory and implementation of quality improvement is possible and effective. It addresses the ACGME competencies of practice-based improvement and learning and systems-based practice. Our iterative experience during the past 3 years can serve as a guide for other programs.
BACKGROUND Although operative report documentation (ORD) is an essential skill for surgeons and is evolving with electronic health records (EHRs), little is known about current ORD teaching in surgical training.   STUDY DESIGN An electronic survey was sent out in January 2012 to all 1,096 ACGME surgical program directors that assessed characteristics of training programs, EHR adoption, ORD education, synoptic or templated report usage for ORD, and attitudes and opinions about ORD education and electronic tools for ORD. Content thematic analysis of qualitative responses was performed iteratively until reaching saturation.   RESULTS Overall, 441 program directors (40%; 17.9 짹 8.8 years in practice) responded from university-affiliated (383 [87%]), community/private (44 [10%]), and military (14 [3%]) programs. Although most (n = 295 [67%]) consider ORD teaching a priority, only 76 (17%) programs provide ORD instruction. Program directors formally trained in ORD were more likely to offer ORD instruction (61% vs 11%; p < 0.0001), as were obstetrics/gynecology programs (obstetrics/gynecology 35% vs surgery 18%, neurosurgery 16%, ophthalmology 14%, orthopaedics 14%; p < 0.05 each). Although EHR adoption and electronically available operative reports were common (91%), besides ophthalmology (31%) and obstetrics/gynecology (30%) programs, ORD with synoptic reporting was used in only 18% of programs overall. Program directors perceived major barriers to ORD instruction and synoptic reporting for ORD.   CONCLUSIONS Although most program directors consider ORD teaching an educational priority, incongruence exists between its perceived value and its adoption into surgical training. Operative report documentation with synoptic reporting is currently not common in most surgical subspecialties.
BACKGROUND Length of training (LOT), lifestyle, and decreasing reimbursement have been credited with contributing to the decline in applications to thoracic surgery (TS). Other surgical specialties share similarities in LOT and lifestyle; however, trends in applications for these specialties have not been compared. One cannot look at applications to TS without examining concurrent changes in the pool of residents finishing general surgery. To clarify the relative impact of LOT, lifestyle, applicant pool, and reimbursement on applications to TS, we analyzed these trends concurrently.   METHODS National Resident Matching Program residency and fellowship match placement data (1997 to 2012) for general, TS, pediatric, transplant, and vascular surgery, including integrated TS and vascular surgery, were analyzed. Corresponding trends in reimbursement were analyzed from Medical Group Management Association data (1996 to 2010).   RESULTS During the study period, percentage of medical students matching into general surgery has remained relatively constant (4.9% to 5.5%). Applications for TS have declined since 1997. Applications for pediatric and transplant surgery have increased. Vascular surgery has remained relatively constant, with an applicant to position ratio approximately 1:1. Integrated programs (thoracic and vascular) have been popular; 3 to 7.4 applicants per position and 2 to 3.47 applicants per position, respectively. Cardiovascular surgery median salaries have remained largely the same; salaries for general thoracic, pediatric, transplant, and vascular surgery have increased (1.95% to 7.13% per year) although cardiovascular surgeons continue to have the highest median salary.   CONCLUSIONS Given the above data, it does not appear that LOT is the critical issue associated with the decline in fellowship applications for TS. The increased demand for integrated training programs may be reflective of other factors rather than LOT. The success of abbreviated programs in training competent thoracic surgeons has not yet been determined. Given that LOT does not appear to혻affect applications to surgical specialty, we may be able혻to maintain applications to the specialty without compromising LOT.
PURPOSE Since 2011, the French medical students ranked after a national ranking exam (NRE) are making their career choice among 11 disciplines detailing the chosen one. Before 2011, this precise choice was unknown. Our work is the first descriptive study of French medical students choice of career after the NRE, precising the medical specialty chosen and the city of practical formation.   METHODS We analyzed the Excel(짰) file transmitted by the 'Agence r챕gionale de sant챕 d'Aquitaine' once students choice done after the 2012 NRE. A median range analysis was made for disciplines and city formation choices. For medical and surgery specialties, the analysis was compared to regional medical densities.   RESULTS According to the median national choice, the first sixth disciplines chosen are ophthalmology, nephrology, internal medicine, radiology, cardiology and dermatology. Women are more attracted by medical gynecology, obstetrics, pediatrics, or dermatology; men mostly by neurosurgery, general surgery, nuclear medicine or cardiology. The most rated cities of formation according to their national median range of choice are Lyon, Montpellier and Paris. A majority of students (59 %) moved to another city to obtain the desired specialty. Among general practitioners, 56 % of students stayed in the city where they had been trained.   PERSPECTIVES Our study may provide concrete objectives for French medical students accomplishing their second cycle of medical studies, as well as supplemental data for French medical demographic management.
Since June 2013 a hybrid operation theatre is used interdisciplinary in the department for surgery of Ulm University. In this operation theatre a floor-based flat panel c-arm, which is mounted on a robotic arm that can be controlled by the surgeon in a sterile environment, is linked to the operating table. Furthermore for the first time it was possible to integrate a navigation system in this setting. The interdisciplinary utilization (trauma, neurosurgery, cardiac and vascular surgery) makes this hybrid operation theatre very time and cost effective. In the orthopedic trauma department this system is mainly used for traumatic and oncologic pelvic and spinal injuries. In these anatomical regions the excellent image quality and large field of view of the robotic flat panel detector based 3D imaging combined with an intraoperative navigation system is a huge advantage. The system can also be used for complex fractures of the extremities. In the future there will be an integration of further imaging modalities and referenced holding devices in this setting.
Our aim was to survey the opinions of Italian radiation and ENT oncologists regarding the role of postoperative radiotherapy (PRT) and the appropriate dose to be given to patients with remnant larynx (RL) after open partial laryngectomy (OPL). The radio-oncologists (ROs) of the Italian Radiation-Oncologist Association (AIRO) and the ENTs of the Head-Neck Oncology Society (AIOCC-IHNS) were contacted through a SurveyMonkey online interface questionnaire. There were 148 usable responses. The majority of ROs recommended PRT in the case of positive/close margins (R(+)/R(close)) or in the case of initial involvement of thyroid cartilage (pT3(tci)). In the same cases, ENTs prefer a 'watch and wait' policy (w&w). Both disciplines recommended w&w in the case of negative margins (R(-)). Finally, the majority of RO s recommended irradiating RL with 62-66 Gy in R(+), with 56-66 Gy (61.4%) in R(close) and with 56-60 Gy (34%) in pT3(tci). In Conclusion, OPL raises new considerations about PRT.
BACKGROUND This study aimed to evaluate the effects of indications for thyroidectomy on patient outcomes and to examine the impact of surgical volume on these outcomes.   METHODS The nationwide inpatient sample was used to identify all patients who underwent total thyroidectomy (TT) between 2000 and 2009. We examined the effects of surgeon volume and hospital characteristics on predicting patient outcomes. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to examine the effects of the indication for surgical care on postoperative outcomes.   RESULTS Overall, 46,261 procedures were identified. Patients with Graves disease had the highest postoperative complications (17.5%) compared to patients undergoing TT for other benign (13.9%) and malignant (13.2%) thyroid disease (P < .001). After stratification by surgeon volume, Graves disease was found to be a significant predictor of postoperative complications in surgeries performed by low- and intermediate-volume surgeons (P < .05). However, Graves disease was not a significant predictor of postoperative complications when performed by high volume surgeons (P = .81). Hospital volume had an inconsistent and marginal protective effect on postoperative outcomes.   CONCLUSION Surgery for Graves disease is associated with a higher risk for complications when performed by less experienced surgeons. This finding should prompt recommendations for increasing surgical specialization and referrals to high-volume surgeons in the management of Graves disease.
BACKGROUND Demand for dermatologic care is increasing alongside a known shortage of physicians in the dermatology workforce. Changes in the volume of dermatologic procedures over time and the physician specialties involved in skin-related procedural care are not well characterized.   OBJECTIVE To determine the frequency of dermatologic procedures performed in the United States between 1995 and 2010 and to analyze the changes in the procedures and physicians performing procedures over time.   METHODS The annual volume of skin-related procedures performed by physician specialties and the rate of procedures performed per physician was determined from data from the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NAMCS) between 1995 to 2004 and 2007 to 2010.   RESULTS Dermatologists and primary care physicians performed most procedures (54.7% and 19.5%, respectively).   CONCLUSIONS Dermatologists perform a larger volume of procedures than in the past, although the proportion of procedures performed by dermatologists is unchanged, and other physician specialties are performing more skin-related procedures to meet increasing demand.
BACKGROUND Simulated surgical training offers a safe and accessible way of learning surgical procedures outside the operating room. Training programs have been developed using simulated laboratories to train surgical trainees to proficiency outside the operating room. Despite the global enthusiasm among educators to enhance training through simulation-based learning, it remains to be elucidated whether the skill set obtained is transferrable to the operating room.   METHODS Using standardized search methods, the authors searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, PubMed, Embase, and Web-Based Knowledge, as well as the reference lists of relevant articles, and retrieved all published randomized controlled trials.   RESULTS Sixteen randomized controlled trials involving 309 participants were identified to be suitable for qualitative analysis using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines. The mean Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials score was 16 (range, 12-22). The studies showed considerable clinical and methodologic diversity. Operative time improved consistently in all trials after training and was the only objective parameter measurable in the live setting. Studies that used the Objective Structured Assessment of Technical Skills as their primary outcome showed improved scores in 80% of trials, and studies that used performance indicators to assess participants all showed improved scores after simulation training in all of the trials, with 88% showing statistical significance.   CONCLUSIONS The current literature consistently demonstrates the positive impact of simulation on operative time and predefined performance scores. However, these reproducible measures alone are insufficient to demonstrate transferability of skills from the laboratory to the operating room. The authors advocate a multimodal assessment, including metrics, the Objective Structured Assessment of Technical Skills, and critical step completion. This may provide a more complete assessment of operative performance. Only then can it be concluded that simulation skills are transferable to the live operative setting.
BACKGROUND The cost and logistics of deploying the American College of Surgeons (ACS)/Association of Program Directors in Surgery (APDS) National Technical Skills Curriculum across all training years are not known. This information is essential for residency programs choosing to adopt similar curricula.   METHODS A task force evaluated the authors' institution's existing simulation curriculum and enhanced it by implementing the ACS/APDS modules. A 35-module curriculum was administered to 35 general surgery residents across all 5 clinical years. The costs and logistics were noted, and resident satisfaction was assessed.   RESULTS The annual operational cost was $110,300 ($3,150 per resident). Cost per module, per resident was $940 for the cadaveric module compared with $220 and $240 for dry simulation and animal tissue-based modules, respectively. Resident satisfaction improved from 2.45 to 4.78 on a 5-point, Likert-type scale after implementing the ACS/APDS modules.   CONCLUSIONS The ACS/APDS skills curriculum was implemented successfully across all clinical years. Cadaveric modules were the most expensive. Animal and dry simulation modules were equivalent in cost. The addition of tissue-based modules was associated with high satisfaction.
OBJECTIVES To understand the institutions, personnel, and events that shaped postgraduate medical schools in late 19th- and early 20th-century America.   BACKGROUND In a little remembered chapter of American surgical medical history, postgraduate medical schools played a decisive role in surgery's march toward professionalization and specialization. While William Halsted was first establishing his training program in Baltimore, medical facilities such as the New York Polyclinic and the New York Post-Graduate were already turning out thousands of physicians who considered themselves 'specialists' in surgery.   METHODS An analysis of the published and unpublished medical and lay literature relating to the nation's postgraduate medical schools.   RESULTS The founding of postgraduate medical schools in turn-of-the-century America was a key event in the acceptance of surgery as a legitimate specialty within the whole of medicine. These little remembered institutions laid the foundation for the blossoming of surgical care and the extraordinary clinical advances that followed.   CONCLUSIONS Postgraduate medical schools, particularly the New York Polyclinic and the New York Post-Graduate, were dominant influences in shaping the early history of surgery in America. These institutions brought the pressure for specialization in surgery to the forefront of discussions about medical education and training. For the first time, a large number of practitioners were offered a formalized surgical experience in a busy urban medical facility. As a result, and despite their being long forgotten, the importance of postgraduate medical schools in our nation's surgical history cannot be overstated.
IMPORTANCE Understanding head and neck surgeons' current knowledge, practices, and opinions regarding human papillomavirus (HPV) education and prevention will enable efforts to assist surgeons in this important endeavor.   OBJECTIVE To assess knowledge, attitudes, and beliefs of head and neck surgeons regarding HPV education and vaccination.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Online survey of members of the American Head and Neck Society (AHNS) in late 2011 and early 2012.   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Knowledge, attitudes, and current practices regarding HPV education and vaccination.   RESULTS All 1081 members of the AHNS were approached via e-mail, and 297 members completed the survey, for an overall response rate of 27.5%. Most respondents were male (86.2%) fellowship-trained head and neck surgeons (80.4%), and most practice in an academic setting (77.1%) in the United States (78.1%). More than 90% of respondents discuss risk factors for head and neck cancer and HPV as a specific risk factor with their patients. However, only 49.1% discuss the importance of vaccinating preadolescents for HPV, most commonly citing that they do not do so because their patients are adults (38.7%). Of those respondents with daughters, 68.9% reported that their daughters had received or they intend their daughters to receive the HPV vaccine. Of those respondents with sons, only 55.8% reported that their sons had been vaccinated or they intend for them to be. Respondents reported divergent attitudes toward HPV vaccination safety and efficacy. However, respondents were overwhelmingly supportive of possible future ANHS activities to educate clinicians, increase public awareness, educate patients, and advocate for health policy related to HPV.   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Head and neck surgeons are knowledgeable about HPV and show generally positive attitudes and beliefs about HPV education and vaccination. They endorse AHNS actions to improve public and patient education, as well as health policy on HPV. These findings support AHNS developing a strategic plan and actions to improve knowledge and reduce HPV infection among the American public.
INTRODUCTION Oncoplastic breast surgery (OBS) is a developing subspecialty, although many countries are struggling with how to incorporate training in OBS as part of the established breast surgery subspecialization pathways. UK and Brazil have surged ahead with established formal training programmes, whereas countries such as Australia still rely on ad hoc training by interested surgeons. Our aim was to review the possibility of including regional training centres with appropriate OBS expertise into a future formal training programme in OBS.   METHODS An 11-month self-audit was performed by the Fellow based in Port Macquarie, in a Breast Surgeons Society of Australia and New Zealand Incorporated accredited Fellowship. The audit template and reconstructive database, which were utilized in this study were supplied by Breast Surgeons Society of Australia and New Zealand Incorporated.   RESULTS OBS procedures made up 41% of total breast procedures performed, with 46% of these being performed by the Fellow. These oncoplastic procedures included 22 reconstructive breast procedures, with 15 (68%) being performed by the Fellow. These procedures involved mainly pedicle transverse rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap reconstruction after mastectomy and breast implant reconstruction techniques. Minor and major complications accounted for a small percentage of operated cases and are discussed.   DISCUSSION Current British Association of Surgical Oncology (BASO) guidelines specify recommendations regarding BASO Level I and II OBS training, experience and exposure. Based on the experience during the fellowship presented in this audit, we discuss the merits of using regional Australian hospitals like Port Macquarie Base Hospital to make up the cohort of BASO Level I units to provide the core foundation experience in OBS to the next generation of Australian oncoplastic breast fellows.
BACKGROUND Head and neck oncologic surgery is a time-consuming specialty that requires extensive resources and manpower. Case mix index (CMI) is used in evaluating the complexity and economic impact of surgeons. Head and neck oncologic surgeons generate significant revenue for hospitals, yet compensation is relatively low.   METHODS Retrospective review of a tertiary hospital's case mix data for 605 otolaryngology admissions from 2009 to 2011 was performed. CMI comparison for head and neck oncologic surgeons versus general otolaryngology was performed.   RESULTS In an otolaryngology department of 9 surgeons; there was a significant difference (p < .01) in the CMI and a significantly greater chance to have a 'good CMI' (CMI >1) favoring head and neck oncologic surgeons.   CONCLUSION Head and neck oncologic surgeons increase the CMI for hospitals and ultimately influence the hospital's reimbursement. There is a need for increased collaboration between hospitals and departments in fostering and furthering their head and neck surgical oncology programs by taking CMI into consideration.
BACKGROUND The absence of pediatric surgeons in many centers results in restriction of patient access to pediatric subspecialty care. The aim of this study was to compare the outcomes of children treated for appendicitis by pediatric surgeons (PS) and by general surgeons (GS).   METHODS This was a retrospective review of the charts of all consecutive patients <16 years old who underwent appendectomy during 2 years The primary outcome measure was the overall rate of complications. Secondary outcome measures included length of hospital stay (LOS), symptom duration, time from emergency department diagnosis to surgery, and readmission rate within 30 days.   RESULTS A total of 94 patients (PS group, n = 66; GS group, n = 28) were included. PS patients were younger. For patients with complicated appendicitis, complications were significantly more prevalent in the GS group (57% vs 15%; P = 0.0001). Median LOS was not significantly different between the two groups for complicated appendicitis, but patients with non-complicated appendicitis had a significant longer LOS when treated by PS (3.74 짹 1.5 vs 2.57 짹 1.21 days; P =0.0041). Patients in the PS group had a prolonged use of antibiotics (2 vs 4 days; P = 0.001), and longer LOS (3 vs 4 days; P = 0.0018).   CONCLUSIONS Overall complication rates were similar between PS and GS. Complications were significantly more prevalent in patients with complicated appendicitis who were treated by GS.
INTRODUCTION An incorrect transfer of patients to paediatric surgery clinic results in clinic saturation and both patient and medical staff discomfort. As a consequence the quality of medical care is deteriorated.   AIM 1) To evaluate the transfer of new patients to paediatric surgery clinic from primary paediatric care considering the medical diagnosis and the surgical calendar, looking for the most common mistakes. 2) To analyze the inconvenience of a wrong indication for both our patients and the medical staff. 3) To propose new measures to decrease the rate of patients incorrectly transferred.   MATERIAL AND METHOD An observational retrospective study was performed based on medical records of new patients evaluated in paediatric surgery clinic between september 2010 and january 2012. Age, address, diagnosis, transfer indication and referring centre were collected.   RESULTS Two thousand four hundred thirty medical records were reviewed from new patients finding an incorrect transfer in 44.28% of them (2.37 children/day). From these cases wrong transfer was related to surgical calendar in 18.59% and wrong diagnosis in 81.41% of them. Most common mistakes due to wrong diagnosis were Phimosis (91.45% n= 113) and Cryptorquidism (85.29% n = 122); mistakes related to surgical calendar were Umbilical Hernia (88.46%), Hypospadias (72.22% n= 31) and Hydrocele (70.83% n = 12). Mean distance of transfer for patients wrongly referred outside the metropolitan area was 35.92 km (Range: 7.1-129).   CONCLUSIONS We have detected major mistakes in patient transfer from primary paediatric care. The knowledge of surgical calendar and accurate diagnosis should avoid these problems. These mistakes result in deterioration of medical care quality, patient discomfort and clinic saturation. It is necessary to propose and develop measures that improve the knowledge of surgical calendar and to make more accurate surgical diagnosis in primary paediatric care.
OBJECTIVES Over 60% of UK medical students are female, yet only 33% of applicants to surgical training are women. Role modelling, differing educational experiences and disidentification in female medical students have been implicated in this disparity. We are yet to fully understand the mechanisms that link students' experiences with national trends in career choices. We employ a hitherto unused concept from the theory of communities of practice: paradigmatic trajectories. These are visible career paths provided by a community and are cited by Wenger as potentially the most influential factors shaping the learning of newcomers. We pioneer the use of this theoretical tool in answering the research question: How do paradigmatic trajectories shape female medical students' experiences of surgery and subsequent career intentions?   METHODS This qualitative study comprised a secondary analysis of data sourced from 19 clinical medical students. During individual, in-depth, semi-structured interviews, we explored these students' experiences at medical school. We carried out thematic analysis using sensitising concepts from communities of practice theory, notably that of 'paradigmatic trajectories'.   RESULTS Female students' experiences of surgery were strongly gendered; they were positioned as 'other' in the surgical domain. Four key processes--seeing, hearing, doing and imagining--facilitated the formation of paradigmatic trajectories, on which students could draw when making career decisions. Female students were unable to see or identify with other women in surgery. They heard about challenges to being a female surgeon, lacked experiences of participation, and struggled to imagine a future in which they would be successful surgeons. Thus, based on paradigmatic trajectories constructed from exposure to surgery, they self-selected out of surgical careers. By contrast, male students had experiences of 'hands-in' participation and were not marginalised by paradigmatic trajectories.   CONCLUSIONS The concept of the paradigmatic trajectory is a useful theoretical tool with which to understand how students' experiences shape career decisions. Paradigmatic trajectories within surgery deter female students from embarking on careers in surgery.
Danish surgeons in training have a 37-hour workweek. These are relatively few hours compared with the hours in England and USA where surgeons have a workweek of respectively 48 and 80 hours. The optimal length of a workweek during surgical education is unknown, but studies have shown that surgeons working more hours have improved abilities in clinical judgment. Learning outcome may improve if Danish surgeons in training were allowed to work more hours. We suggest a 37 + 11-hour workweek, where 11 hours are reserved for educational purposes.
OBJECTIVE Recent changes to the structure of medical training have placed increasing pressure on foundation year 1 (FY1) doctors to decide upon careers earlier. The deadline for application to core surgical training (CST) at the start of the foundation year 2 (FY2) may deter doctors from pursuing careers in surgery due to insufficient experience and confidence in its practical aspects. We piloted a four-week basic surgical skills (BSS) programme near the start of the FY1 year to a small cohort of FY1s and assessed its impact on confidence in basic surgical competencies and attitudes to a career in surgery.   METHODS FY1 doctors at Whipps Cross University Hospital (WXUH) were selected to participate in a four week BSS programme within three months of starting their posts. We devised the BSS programme based on relevant key competencies in the Intercollegiate Surgical Curriculum Programme (ISCP). Using questionnaires we assessed confidence in basic surgical skills, competencies and attitudes to surgery before, immediately after and at 8 months after completion of the course and compared this with non-participating FY1s.   RESULTS Out of 31 FY1 doctors, 14 (4 males, 10 females) participated in the BSS programme and 17 (10 males, 7 females) were non-participants (control group). Using the Mann-Whitney test, there was a statistically significant increase in confidence at 8 month follow-up of course participants (versus control group) in tying knots (p혻=혻0.0112), suturing skills (p혻=혻0.0455) performing fine needle aspiration (FNA) cytology (p혻=혻0.0017), obtaining tru-cut biopsy samples (p혻=혻0.0031), suturing lacerations in accident and emergency (A&E) (p혻=혻0.0009), incising and draining abscesses (p혻=혻0.0034), performing skin closure (p혻=혻0.0042), surgical sharps handling (p혻=혻0.0402) and surgical instrument handling (p혻=혻0.0066). Course participants were significantly more likely than non-participants to receive additional training in BSS from senior members of the team (p혻=혻0.0076). Importantly, they also demonstrated a statistically significant increase in interest in a career in surgery at 8 month follow-up in comparison to non-participants (p혻=혻0.0016).   CONCLUSIONS A structured, challenging BSS teaching programme early on during the FY1 year increases confidence in key surgical skills and competencies and can increase interest in surgery as a career.
BACKGROUND Since acute care surgery (ACS) was conceptualized a decade ago, the specialty has been adopted widely; however, little is known about the structure and function of ACS teams.   METHODS We conducted 18 open-ended interviews with ACS leaders (representing geographic [New England, Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, South, West, Midwest] and practice [Public/Charity, Community, University] diversity). Two independent reviewers analyzed transcribed interviews using an inductive approach (NVivo qualitative analysis software).   RESULTS All respondents described ACS as a specialty treating 'time-sensitive surgical disease' including trauma, emergency general surgery (EGS), and surgical critical care (SCC); 11 of 18 combined trauma and EGS into a single clinical team; 9 of 18 included elective general surgery. Emergency orthopedics, emergency neurosurgery, and surgical subspecialty triage were rare (1/18 each). Eight of 18 ACS teams had scheduled EGS operating room time. All had a core group of trauma and SCC surgeons; 13 of 18 shared EGS due to volume, human resources, or competition for revenue. Only 12 of 18 had formal signout rounds; only 2 of 18 had prospective EGS data registries. Streamlined access to EGS, evidence-based protocols, and improved education were considered strengths of ACS. ACS was described as the 'last great surgical service' reinvigorated to provide 'timely,' cost-effective EGS by experts in 'resuscitation and critical care' and to attract 'young, talented, eager surgeons' to trauma/SCC; however, there was concern that ACS might become the 'wastebasket for everything that happens at inconvenient times.'   CONCLUSION Despite rapid adoption of ACS, its implementation varies widely. Standardization of scope of practice, continuity of care, and registry development may improve EGS outcomes and allow the specialty to thrive.
BACKGROUND Physician workforce studies indicate that more specialists contribute to higher average costs. The closely monitored pediatric surgery specialty may reflect what is occurring in other specialties.   METHODS This report reviews the number of complex operations performed on infants and children in 1970, with <225 trained US pediatric surgeons, and in 2010, when there were 1,130. The number of births remained consistent during this 40-year period.   RESULTS In 2010, approximately 10,710 complex index operations were performed on children in the United States by certified pediatric surgeons, resulting in 9.5 per surgeon annually. Data from the University of California, Los Angeles, and the Vanderbilt Children's Hospital confirm these observations.   CONCLUSIONS The progressive disparity in the number of pediatric surgeons trained and the number of complex index operations performed annually may increase costs and calls into question the ability of individual pediatric surgeons to maintain optimal competence. Consideration might be given to performing index operations at centers of excellence.
BACKGROUND The purpose of our study was to determine the predictive impact of individual academic measures for the matriculation of senior medical students into a general surgery residency.   METHODS Academic records were evaluated for third-year medical students (n = 781) at a single institution between 2004 and 2011. Cohorts were defined by student matriculation into either a general surgery residency program (n = 58) or a non-general surgery residency program (n = 723). Multivariate logistic regression was performed to evaluate independently significant academic measures.   RESULTS Clinical evaluation raw scores were predictive of general surgery matriculation (P = .014). In addition, multivariate modeling showed lower United States Medical Licensing Examination Step 1 scores to be independently associated with matriculation into general surgery (P = .007).   CONCLUSIONS Superior clinical aptitude is independently associated with general surgical matriculation. This is in contrast to the negative correlation United States Medical Licensing Examination Step 1 scores have on general surgery matriculation. Recognizing this, surgical clerkship directors can offer opportunities for continued surgical education to students showing high clinical aptitude, increasing their likelihood of surgical matriculation.
BACKGROUND Scholarly activity is expected of program directors of Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME)-accredited residency training programs. Anesthesiology residency programs are cited more often than surgical programs for deficiencies in academic productivity. We hypothesized that this may in part reflect differences in scholarly activity between program directors of anesthesiology and surgical trainings programs. To test the hypothesis, we examined the career track record of current program directors of ACGME-accredited anesthesiology and surgical residency programs at the same institutions using PubMed citations and funding from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) as metrics of scholarly activity.   METHODS Between November 1, 2011 and December 31, 2011, we obtained data from publicly available Web sites on program directors at 127 institutions that had ACGME-accredited programs in both anesthesiology and surgery. Information gathered on each individual included year of board certification, year first appointed program director, academic rank, history of NIH grant funding, and number of PubMed citations. We also calculated the h-index for a randomly selected subset of 25 institution-matched program directors.   RESULTS There were no differences between the groups in number of years since board certification (P = 0.42), academic rank (P = 0.38), or years as a program director (P = 0.22). However, program directors in anesthesiology had less prior or current NIH funding (P = 0.002), fewer total and education-related PubMed citations (both P < 0.001), and a lower h-index (P = 0.001) than surgery program directors. Multivariate analysis revealed that the publication rate for anesthesiology program directors was 43% (95% confidence interval, 0.31-0.58) that of the corresponding program directors of surgical residency programs, holding other variables constant.   CONCLUSIONS Program directors of anesthesiology residency programs have considerably less scholarly activity in terms of peer-reviewed publications and federal research funding than directors of surgical residency programs. As such, this study provides further evidence for a systemic weakness in the scholarly fabric of academic anesthesiology.
BACKGROUND The dwindling interest in surgery and surgical specialties raises the fears that the surgical man-power requirements of the society may not be met adequately in coming years. There is a need to explore ways of stimulating interest in surgery in order to forestall this.   OBJECTIVE To identify factors that influence or predict the choice of surgery as a career by interns.   METHODS A descriptive cross-sectional study of 271 interns was conducted using structured self administered questionnaires. The data obtained included demographic details, details of internship rotations, choice of specialty, reasons for nonconsideration of surgery and if the interns had role models, staff advisers and first degree relatives who were surgeons. Data were analysed using descriptive and inferential statistics (SPSS software) with the level of significance at p < 0.05.   RESULTS There were 163 (60.1%) males and 108 (39.9%) females with a mean age of 25.8 years. The majority (97%) wished to commence residency training soon after internship; surgery (37.6%), and internal medicine (22.4%) were the most popular choices. Reasons for non-consideration of surgery included: stressful (46.1%), future family plans (41.3%) and difficult training (18.1%). Males were more likely to choose surgery than females (52.1% vs. 13.0%, p < 0.001). Married interns were less likely to choose surgery compared to their single colleagues (0% vs. 37.5%, p = 0.042). Having surgeons as role models, staff advisers or first degree relatives were significantly associated with selecting a career in surgery.   CONCLUSION Gender, marital status, having surgeons as role models, staff advisers or first degree relatives in medical school are significant factors influencing the choice of a career in surgery.
OBJECTIVE This report describes the development, initial implementation, and reliability of American College of Surgeons Resident Objective Structured Clinical Examination (ACS OSCE).   BACKGROUND Variability in clinical knowledge and skills of entering surgery residents has been demonstrated. The ACS OSCE was developed to evaluate and help remediate residents' knowledge and skills in managing patients with life-threatening conditions.   METHODS A task force of surgeons and professional educators developed 10 standardized clinical case stations, evaluation checklists, and rating scales. Standardized patients (SPs) evaluated each resident's clinical skills (history taking, physical examination, communication, and SP-global scores). Residents completed checklists on diagnosis and management. Coefficient alpha and item-total correlations were used, respectively, to assess internal consistency of metrics and station validity. The resident's overall performance for each station was calculated by combining scores of the individual skills. Analysis of variance compared performance across different institutions.   RESULTS A total of 103 postgraduate year 1 residents from 7 institutions completed the OSCE. Reliability coefficients of skills ranged from 0.38 for diagnosis to 0.68 for global scores. For overall performance on individual stations, the reliability coefficients ranged from 0.51 to 0.82. Using total percent correct scores from highly reliable stations (慣 > 0.8), wide variability in resident performance was demonstrated within and between the 7 institutions.   CONCLUSIONS The ACS OSCE was successfully implemented across diverse institutions. It had moderate reliability and demonstrated variability among entering surgery residents. The ACS OSCE is now available for broader implementation. It should help reduce resident variability and address the requirements of Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education for resident supervision.
BACKGROUND Facial fractures are commonly encountered scenarios for surgeons in the emergency room. The aim of this study was to assess epidemiology and complication rates of facial fractures and the impact of surgical specialty on facial fracture repair using the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program database.   METHODS The authors performed a retrospective review of prospectively collected data from the 2005 to 2011 American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program databases using Current Procedural Terminology codes to identify patients undergoing facial fracture repair. Demographic data, postoperative complications, comparison between single and multiple facial fractures, and surgical specialty were accessed. Chi-square tests or Fisher's exact test were used for comparing categorical variables and t tests for continuous variables.   RESULTS A total of 1170 patients were analyzed. The mean age was 38.7 짹 17.0, and the male-to-female ratio was 3.72:1. The most prevalent facial fracture was mandibular fracture in the single-fracture group and zygomatic fracture in the multiple-fracture group. Mandibular fractures were more prevalent in males and orbital fractures in females. Wound complication, morbidity, and mortality rates were 1.8, 1.3, and 0.1 percent, respectively. Multiple facial fractures and orbital fractures were more frequently treated by plastic surgeons among all surgeons.   CONCLUSIONS Epidemiologic analysis of facial fractures identifies the most affected patient populations and the characteristics of their fractures. Comparison of complication rates and surgical specialty may permit broad insight into how patients are currently managed.   CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE Therapeutic, III.
BACKGROUND Emergency surgery is associated with night-time procedures and disruption of elective surgery. An analysis was undertaken of the effect of classifying emergency operations uniformly with a three-tier urgency colour code and the use of dedicated daytime operating rooms.   METHODS Observed changes from 2001 to 2012 in the number, timing and ability to meet the urgency-designated colour code deadline were retrieved from the computer-based operating theatre organization system for all emergency operations.   RESULTS The number of emergency operations performed annually ranged from 3330 to 4341, with an increasing trend. The proportion of night-time emergency operations decreased from 27.4 per cent (2563 of 9347) before to 23.5 per cent (7731 of 32,959) after introduction of the colour coding system in 2004 (2 =61.94, 1뎒.f., P<0.001). In 2007, owing to long preoperative delays in patients with acute appendicitis and acute cholecystitis, colour codes for these patients were upgraded from 'orange' to 'red' and from 'yellow' to 'orange' respectively. The proportion of patients operated on with a red code before and after this change increased from 45.2 per cent (5831 of 12,907 operations) to 62.7 per cent (13,020 of 20,778 operations; 2 =986.99, 1뎒.f., P<0.001). In 2012, the office-hours raw utilization time for the principal emergency operation theatre was 85.4 per cent.   CONCLUSION The structural separation of elective and emergency surgery, the use of dedicated daytime operating theatres and the implementation of a universal classification of emergency operations reduced night-time surgery, improved the efficiency of operating theatre utilization during daytime, shortened preoperative delay in patients requiring urgent surgery, and enabled monitoring and corrective actions for providing emergency surgery services.
The Pacific Islands Project (PIP), funded by AusAid and managed by the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons (RACS), has progressed through three phases from 1995 to 2010. During this time, it has sent over 520 teams to 11 Pacific Island Countries, providing over 60,000 consultations and some 16,000 procedures. In addition to this delivery of specialist medical and surgical services that were not previously available in-country, the project has contributed as a partner in capacity building with the Fiji School of Medicine and Ministries of Health of the individual nations. By 2011, Fiji School of Medicine, which began postgraduate specialist training in 1998, had awarded 51 doctors a diploma in surgery (1 year), 20 of whom had completed their Masters in Medicine (4 years). PIP was independently evaluated on completion of every phase, including the bridging Phase III (2006-2010). The project delivered on its design, to deliver services, and also helped build capacity. The relationship established with the RACS throughout the project allowed Pacific Island graduates to access the Rowan Nicks scholarship, and the majority of MMed graduates received International Travel Grants to attend the Annual Scientific Meeting. PIP has been a highly successful partnership in delivering and building specialist medical services. Although AusAid contributed some $20 million over 16 years, the value added from pro bono contributions by Specialist Teams, Specialty Coordinators and the Project Directors amounted to an equivalent amount. With the emergence of Pacific Island-trained specialists, PIP is ready to move into a new phase where the agendas are set, monitored and managed within the Pacific, and RACS fulfils the role of a service provider. A critical mass of Pacific Island surgeons has been trained, so that sub-specialization will be an option for the general surgeons of the larger island nations.
BACKGROUND Advances in surgical techniques and anaesthetic practise have facilitated a significant change in the way surgery is currently delivered. In particular, short stay surgery including ambulatory surgery has become the norm for the majority of surgical conditions. However, the planning of surgical services has not always kept pace with nor capitalised on these clinical advances. Like many major urban centres in Australia, the Greater Sydney region is changing, in terms of population growth and configuration of clinical and operational networks. In conjunction with NSW Department of Health, the ministerially appointed Surgical Services Taskforce was tasked with determining the shape and direction of surgery in Greater Sydney over the next 5 to 10 years.   METHODS Over 400 clinicians either attended hospitals forums or were contacted by the Surgery Futures project team.   RESULTS From the consultations, three models of service delivery were strongly advocated. These were the development of high volume short stay surgery centres, the establishment of specialty centres and the expansion of the streaming of planned and emergency surgery.   CONCLUSION These three major recommendations will require a significant reorganisation of surgical services in NSW. However, they are also relevant to surgical services planning elsewhere in Australia. It is imperative that these recommendations are incorporated into long term surgical planning in order to improve the efficiency and sustainability of surgical service delivery.
Wrist, hand, and finger trauma are the most common injuries presenting to emergency departments. Shortage of emergency hand care is an emerging problem, as on-call hand coverage declines. This study evaluates the availability of elective and emergency hand surgery services in Tennessee, with the use of telephone surveys administered to emergency department and operating facility management. One hundred eleven Tennessee hospitals completed the surveys (93% response rate). In all, 77% of hospitals offer elective hand surgery, 58% offer basic emergency hand services, 18% offer occasional hand specialist call coverage and only 7% of hospitals have 24/7 hand specialist call coverage. Hospitals with hand specialists have significantly more payer charges from commercial insurance than hospitals without hand specialists (26.1% vs. 16.1%, P < 0.001). Our results strongly support the need for increased emergency hand coverage. Solutions include creating multihospital coordinated call schedules, increasing incentives for call coverage, and training more hand specialists.
Insular gliomas were traditionally considered a nonsurgical entity due to the high morbidity associated with resection. For the past 20 years, advances in microsurgical and brain mapping techniques have allowed neurosurgeons to resect insular gliomas with acceptable morbidity rates. Maximizing the extent of resection is nowadays the goal of surgery since this has proven to be an independent factor contributing to longer survival. Despite much progress, insular tumors remain a challenge for the neurosurgeon due to the complex anatomy of the region and technical expertise required to minimize morbidity during surgery. Herein, the authors describe the current surgical nuances, based on their experience and a literature review, that will allow the surgeon to achieve a thorough resection while ensuring patient safety. The key factors for successful surgery in the insular region include detailed knowledge of the surgical anatomy, mastery of the nuances of cortical and subcortical mapping methods, and meticulous microsurgical technique.
BACKGROUND The aim of the study was to assess whether medical students' fainting outside the university or while witnessing surgical procedures and/or autopsies influenced their choice of a specialization.   MATERIALS AND METHODS The study group consisted of 605 medical students (from fourth to sixth year of study) from five medical universities in Poland (325 women, 212 men and 8 responders of an unspecified gender). The median age of subjects studied was 23 years, and the interquartile range was 23-24 years. The students at each university were chosen randomly by the author who worked there and had contact with them. An anonymous questionnaire was developed to gather information regarding demographics, the specialization which each student wanted to choose, the syncope occurrence in the medical history, the syncope and presyncope occurrence during surgery and autopsy as well as the syncopal events' characteristics.   RESULTS The group of 15% of women and 30% of men declared to have pursued the surgical specialization (P<0.001), 29% of women and 56% of men declared the intention to pursue an invasive specialization (P<0.001). As many as 36.0% of women studied and 13.1% of men studied reported syncopal spells outside university (P<0.001). Only 41 students (6.8%) reported that syncope or presyncope in any studied circumstances had an impact on their specialization choice. The multivariate analysis showed that the choice of surgical specialization is related to the male gender and the absence of syncopal spells outside the university.   CONCLUSIONS Syncopal and presyncopal spells may affect the professional choices of the medical students. The male gender and a lack of syncope occurrence outside operating room are related to the choice of surgical specialization.
BACKGROUND Knowledge concerning palliative care and the associated skills, including effective pain control, is essential for surgeons who treat cancer patients in daily practice. This study focuses on a palliative care training course that has been mandatorily conducted for all surgical residents of our hospital since 2009.   METHODS We evaluated the effectiveness of our mandatory palliative care training course by conducting a retrospective study of the patients' medical records and participants' questionnaire results and discussed the importance of palliative care education for surgical residents.   RESULTS All 12 surgical residents who participated in the course in 2009 had graduated 4-9 years back. They were assigned to look after a total of 92 cases (average, 7.66 cases per resident) during the course. The purpose of care in most cases (92.3%) was to mitigate pain. Introducing analgesic adjuvants such as gabapentin or amitriptyline accounted for the largest part of initial interventions (23.9%) aimed at controlling cancer pain, followed by changes in route of administration or doses of prior opioid analgesics (21.7%). Interventions with opioid analgesics were conducted most frequently (47.7%). The overall pain improvement rate was 89.1%. We used a questionnaire after the course to evaluate its effectiveness.   CONCLUSIONS The surgical residents stated that it was a meaningful course through which they gained practical knowledge on palliative care and that the experience would change their approach to home care.
For a longer period the interest for surgical education in Denmark has been low measured in the number of junior doctors choosing a surgical career. The Danish Surgical Society has reviewed the published data describing the factors involved when selecting a surgical career.
BACKGROUND Studies have demonstrated that relative value units (RVUs) do not appropriately reflect cognitive effort or time spent in patient care, but RVU continues to be used as a standardized system to track productivity. It is unknown how well RVU reflects the effort of acute care surgeons. Our objective was to determine if RVUs adequately reflect increased surgeon effort required to treat emergent versus elective patients receiving similar procedures.   METHODS A retrospective analysis using The American College of Surgeons' National Surgical Quality Improvement Program 2011 data set was conducted. The control group consisted of patients undergoing elective colectomy, hernia repair, or biliary procedures as identified by Current Procedural Terminology. Comparison was made to emergent cases after being stratified to laparoscopic or open technique. Generalized linear models and logistic regression were used to assess specific outcomes, controlling for demographics and comorbidities of interest. The RVUs, operative time, and length of stay (LOS) were primary variables, with major/minor complications, mortality, and readmissions being evaluated as the relevant outcomes.   RESULTS A total of 442,149 patients in the National Surgical Quality Improvement Program underwent one of the operative procedures of interest; 27,636 biliary (91% laparoscopic; 8.5% open), 28,722 colorectal (40.3% laparoscopic, 59.7% open), and 31,090 hernia (26.6% laparoscopic, 73.4% open) operations. Emergent procedures were found to have average RVU values that were identical to their elective case counterparts. Complication rates were higher and LOS were increased in emergent cases. Odds ratios for complications and readmissions in emergent cases were twice those of elective procedures. Mortality was skewed toward emergent cases.   CONCLUSION Our data indicate that the emergent operative management for various procedures is similarly valued despite increased LOS, more complications, higher mortality risk, and subsequently increased physician attention. Our findings suggest that the RVU system for acute care surgeons may need to be reevaluated to better capture the additional work involved in emergent patient care.
IMPORTANCE Sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) is the standard of care for axillary staging in patients with clinically node-negative breast cancer. It is not known whether SLNB rates differ by surgeon expertise. If surgeons with less breast cancer expertise are less likely to offer SLNB to these patients, this practice pattern could lead to unnecessary axillary lymph node dissections and lymphedema.   OBJECTIVE To explore potential measures of surgical expertise (including a novel objective specialization measure: percentage of a surgeon's operations performed for breast cancer determined from Medicare claims) on the use of SLNB for invasive breast cancer.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND POPULATION A population-based prospective cohort study was conducted in California, Florida, and Illinois. Participants included elderly (65-89 years) women identified from Medicare claims as having had incident invasive breast cancer surgery in 2003. Patient, tumor, treatment, and surgeon characteristics were examined.   MAIN OUTCOME AND MEASURE Type of axillary surgery performed.   RESULTS Of 1703 women who received treatment by 863 surgeons, 56.4% underwent an initial SLNB, 37.2% initial axillary lymph node dissection, and 6.3% no axillary surgery. The median annual surgeon Medicare volume of breast cancer cases was 6.0 (range, 1.5-57.0); the median surgeon percentage of breast cancer cases was 4.5% (range, 0.4%-100.0%). After multivariable adjustment of patient and surgeon factors, women operated on by surgeons with higher volumes and percentages of breast cancer cases had a higher likelihood of undergoing SLNB. Specifically, women were most likely to undergo SLNB if the operation was performed by high-volume surgeons (regardless of percentage) or by lower-volume surgeons with a high percentage of breast cancer cases. In addition, membership in the American Society of Breast Surgeons (odds ratio, 1.98; 95% CI, 1.51-2.60) and Society of Surgical Oncology (1.59; 1.09-2.30) were independent predictors of women undergoing an initial SLNB.   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Patients who receive treatment from surgeons with more experience with and focus on breast cancer are significantly more likely to undergo SLNB, highlighting the importance of receiving initial treatment by specialized providers. Factors relating to specialization in a particular area, including our novel surgeon percentage measure, require further investigation as potential indicators of quality of care.
The new Patients' Rights Act does not reflect rights of patients as professional obligations of physicians for the first time. It adopted common longtime jurisdiction, but in some respects it is going beyond. This law clearly extends the documentation requirements of physicians, especially concerning the extent of documentation. In surgical fields the requirements for enlightening physicians were more strongly worded than in previous jurisdiction. In medical facilities it is now mandatory to establish an internal quality management system.
IMPORTANCE Few current data are available regarding the political behavior of American physicians as the number of female physicians has increased and the number of solo practitioners has decreased.   OBJECTIVE To analyze campaign contributions that physicians made from the 1991 to 1992 through the 2011 to 2012 election cycles to Republican and Democratic candidates in presidential and congressional races and to partisan organizations, including party committees and super political action committees (Super PACs).   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS We explored partisan differences in physician contributions by sex, for-profit vs nonprofit practice setting, and specialty using multiple regression analysis. We studied the relation between the variation in the mean annual income across specialties and the mean percentage of physicians within each specialty contributing to Republicans.   MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Differences in contributions to Republicans and Democrats, for all physicians and for subgroups.   RESULTS Between the 1991 to 1992 and the 2011 to 2012 election cycles, physician campaign contributions increased from $20 million to $189 million, and the percentage of active physicians contributing increased from 2.6% to 9.4%. Of physicians who contributed during the study period, the mean percentage contributing to Republicans was 57% for men and 31% for women. Since 1996, the percentage of physicians contributing to Republicans has decreased, to less than 50% in the 2007 to 2008 election cycle and again in the 2011 to 2012 election cycle. Contributions to Republicans in 2011 to 2012 were more prevalent among men vs women (52.3% vs 23.6%), physicians practicing in for-profit vs nonprofit organizations (53.2% vs 25.6%), and surgeons vs pediatricians (70.2% vs 22.1%). In 1991 to 1992, these contribution gaps were smaller: for sex, 54.5% vs 30.9%; for organizations, 54.2% vs 40.0%; and for specialty, 65.5% vs 32.7%. The percentage of physicians contributing to Republicans across specialties correlated 0.84 with the mean log earnings of each specialty; specialties with higher mean earnings had higher percentages of physicians contributing to Republicans.   CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Between 1991 and 2012, the political alignment of US physicians shifted from predominantly Republican toward the Democrats. The variables driving this change, including the increasing percentage of female physicians and the decreasing percentage of physicians in solo and small practices, are likely to drive further changes.
This is a summary of the 65th Annual Meeting of the American Academy of Pediatrics Section on Surgery held in Orlando, Florida, from October 25-27, 2013.
An analysis of the current situation in the surgical treatment of solid malignant tumors in the Czech Republic demonstrates the need to impose a concept of oncosurgical care, which would lead to a steady improvement in the quality of care provided by surgeons in oncosurgery. The primary aim is that surgery plays an appropriate role in the complex care of oncology patients and that surgeons become equal partners to radiation and internal oncologists in the determination of diagnostic - therapeutic plans and in other decision-making processes. This aim is not possible without increasing the qualification of surgeons in oncosurgery. Our more than ten year effort culminated in 2011 with the introduction of the specialized field of oncosurgery into the postgradual education of surgeons; and as such, similarly to most other developed countries, provided the official opportunity to educate surgeons in the field of oncology. Other important tasks which would contribute to increasing the quality of oncosurgery include rational concentration of oncosurgical operations to a smaller number of surgical departments, where it is necessary to ensure both the improvement of surgeon qualification by way of oncosurgical specialization, as well as adequate material and financial support for complex oncosurgical procedures.
BACKGROUND Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is currently performed by various surgical specialties with varying outcomes. This study analyzes different surgical practice patterns and their effect on perioperative stroke and cost.   METHODS This is a retrospective analysis of prospectively collected data of 1000 consecutive CEAs performed at our혻institution by three different specialties: general surgeons (GS), cardiothoracic surgeons (CTS), and vascular surgeons (VS).   RESULTS VS did 474 CEAs, CTS did 404, and GS did 122. VS tended to operate more often on symptomatic patients than CTS and GS: 40% vs 23% and 31%, respectively (P혻< .0001). Preoperative workups were significantly different between specialties: duplex ultrasound (DUS) only in 66%, 30%, and 18%; DUS and computed tomography angiography in 27%, 35%, and 29%; and DUS and magnetic resonance angiography in 6%, 35%, and 52% for VS, CTS, and GS, respectively (P혻< .001). The mean preoperative carotid stenosis was not significantly different between the specialties. The mean heparin dosage was 5168, 7522, and 5331 units (P혻= .0001) and protamine was used in 0.2%, 19%, and 8% (P혻< .0001) for VS, CTS, and GS, respectively. VS more often used postoperative drains; however, no association was found between heparin dosage, protamine, and drain use and postoperative bleeding. Patching was used in 99%, 93%, and 76% (P혻< .0001) for VS, CTS, and GS, respectively. Bovine pericardial patches were used more often by CTS and ACUSEAL (Gore-Tex; W. L. Gore and Associates, Flagstaff, Ariz) patches were used more often by GS (P혻< .0001). The perioperative stroke/death rates were 1.3% for VS and 3.1% for CTS and GS combined (P혻= .055); and were 0.7% for VS and 3% for CTS and GS combined for asymptomatic patients (P혻< .034). Perioperative stroke rates for patients who had preoperative DUS only were 0.9% vs 3.3% for patients who had extra imaging (computed tomography angiography/magnetic resonance angiography; P혻= .009); and were 0.9% vs 3% for asymptomatic patients (P혻= .05). When applying hospital billing charges for preoperative imaging workups (cost of DUS only vs DUS and other imaging), the VS혻practice pattern would have saved $1180 per CEA over CTS and GS practice patterns; a total savings of $1,180,000 in this series.   CONCLUSIONS CEA practice patterns differ between specialties. Although the cost was higher for non-VS practices, the perioperative stroke/death rate was somewhat higher. Therefore, educating physicians who perform CEAs on cost-saving measures may be appropriate.
BACKGROUND The conventional treatment for Dupuytren's disease is surgery. The introduction of alternative treatment strategies creates a need to track outcomes and costs relating to surgical treatment and risk factors, such as smoking and diabetes. This was the aim of the present study.   METHODS In a prospective study, the outcome of open surgical treatment for finger flexion contracture in Dupuytren's disease (175 patients; 182 surgical procedures) was studied by evaluating valid QuickDASH forms answered by subjects before surgery and one year postoperatively. Data were also obtained from medical records, and preoperative declarations concerning health.   RESULTS In all subjects (median [25% - 75% percentiles] age 68 [62-73]), the QuickDASH score improved from 22 [9-36] to 5 [0-18]. Smokers (27/179 procedures) were younger and had a more severe degree of disease and dysfunction preoperatively than non-smokers, but the outcome of surgery did not differ between the groups. Subjects with diabetes (20/181 procedures) were younger than those without diabetes, but their disease severity or outcome did not differ. Hand specialists operated faster than residents, but the surgical outcome did not differ. Healthcare costs for surgery for Dupuytren's contracture were $ 2392 ( 1859), which were not higher among smokers or subjects with diabetes. Only 22 patients remained in hospital (2 [1-2.3] days) and 28 patients needed sick leave (28 [21-31] days). The occurrence of necrosis of skin flaps (12%) or infections (6%) was no more frequent among smokers or those with diabetes.   CONCLUSIONS There is no difference in surgical outcome for finger flexion contracture in Dupuytren's disease between smokers and non-smokers or between subjects with or without diabetes, although smokers had more severe preoperative contracture. The costs for surgical treatment for finger flexion contracture in Dupuytren's disease should be viewed in relation to that for other treatment strategies.
The issue highlights the problem of the professional 'burning out' among surgeons. 95 surgeons answered the questionnary, which showed that such factors as high work load, night duties, working on a week-end, increasing number of patients for the one doctor, scarce moral and material reward for the work, unsatisfactory supply of hospitals etc., arise negative emotions in 50-100% of respontents. Possible ways to change the situation can be: preliminary interviewing of matriculants, preparing medical students for surgical realities and establishing the staff psychologist.
INTRODUCTION We sought to characterize the extent of extremity soft tissue tumor (ESTT) resections among surgical specialties, hypothesizing that substantial variation exists in the number of ESTT resections performed by specialty.   METHODS We queried the UHC-AAMC database for data from 85 institutions for years 2007-2009. We abstracted data on total number of musculoskeletal (MSK) procedures, number of subcutaneous (SQ), deep, and malignant ESTT resections, and anatomic site of resection. Data were available for 4,682 practitioners including the following specialties: general surgery (GS, N=2,195), plastic surgery (PS, N=792), surgical oncology (SO, N=533), general orthopedics (GO, N=1,079), and orthopedic oncology (OO, N=83).   RESULTS The mean number of all MSK procedures performed per year was 19.0됀기2.3 GS, 179.6됀기3.0 PS, 32.4됀기6.2 SO, 798.6됀기115.4 GO, and 482.9됀기6.5 OO (P=0.001). SQ ESTT resections per year were similar among specialties (1.7됀기0.3 GS, 2.7됀기0.3 PS, 2.4됀기0.4 SO, 1.7됀기0.5 GO, 4.7됀기0.2 OO), while deep and malignant resections were more likely performed by OO (combined deep and malignant: 0.9됀기0.1 GS, 2.0됀기0.4 PS, 9.9됀기0.6 SO, 5.8됀기0.3 GO, and 63.6됀기8.1 OO, P=0.001). Adjusting for number of physicians in the database, of the total deep and malignant ESTT resections, 9.4% were performed by GS, 7.7% by PS, 26.0% by SO, 30.8% by GO, and 26.0% by OO.   CONCLUSION Nearly 50% of deep and malignant ESTT resections are performed by non-oncology-designated surgeons. Approximately 17% are performed by practitioners who complete an average of one to two of these procedures per year. These findings may have significant implications for quality of care in soft tissue tumor surgery.
INTRODUCTION Retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy (R-neph) is still not generally favored by pediatric surgeons for various reasons, including lack of experience of retroperitoneal anatomy compared with pediatric urologists, concern about long operative times, and related complications.   MATERIALS AND METHODS We compared nephrectomies/heminephrectomies planned, performed, and managed by five senior pediatric surgical trainees (SPST) under the supervision of a board-certified pediatric surgeon (BCPS) (A.Y.) using four-trocar retroperitoneoscopy (R-neph) (n=11) with conventional open nephrectomy and heminephrectomy (O-neph) (n=20) performed by 4 BCPS.   RESULTS O-neph comprised 14 nephrectomies and 6 upper pole nephrectomies; R-neph comprised 9 total nephrectomies and 2 upper pole nephrectomies. Mean age and mean weight at nephrectomy were not statistically different. Mean operating time (MOT) was 137 (range, 85-290) minutes in O-neph versus 197 (116-341) minutes in R-neph. MOT for the first 5 R-neph cases was 249 minutes versus 153 minutes for the last 6 cases. Mean blood loss was 17 (range, 1-55) mL in O-neph versus 10.3 (2-40) mL in R-neph. One R-neph case required conversion to O-neph. There were no transfusions and no intraoperative complications. Two partial heminephrectomy patients (one O-neph and one R-neph) developed transient urinoma postoperatively that resolved conservatively. Mean duration of postoperative bed rest was 1.0 day in O-neph versus 0.6 days in R-neph. Differences in mean postoperative fentanyl requirement (O-neph, 21.5 [10-40] 關g/kg; R-neph, 4.1 [0-20] 關g/kg) and duration of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory suppository usage (O-neph, 2.3 [0-5] days; R-neph, 0.9 [0-2] days) were significant (both P<.05). Full oral feeding was resumed after a mean of 1.6 (1-2) days in O neph and 1.2 (1-2) days in R-neph.   CONCLUSIONS R-neph was safely performed by SPST, and results were comparable to those with O-neph performed by BCPS.
INTRODUCTION Pharmacists' advice may reduce medication errors in the emergency department (ED). However, pharmacists' recommendations are of little value if not acknowledged by physicians. The aim of the present study was to analyze how often and which categories of pharmacist recommendations were taken into account by the physicians in a Danish ED. Special attention is paid to problems of significant or vital importance.   MATERIAL AND METHODS Clinical pharmacists reviewed patient files within 24 hours of admission, described medication issues and made recommendations for solutions. It was subsequently noted whether the recommendations were taken into account by the physicians. Independent specialists in internal medicine and geriatrics reviewed the recommendations and assessed whether they were of minimal, moderate, significant or vital importance.   RESULTS Among the 301 recommendations made, 59% were followed by the physicians. The physician followed the recommendation made for patients admitted with medical problems significantly more often than the recommendations made for surgical patients (69% versus 51%, p = 0.002). In 47%, the recommendations were of significant or vital importance. Even these recommendations were acknowledged more by the physicians caring for medical patients than by physicians caring for surgical patients (78% versus 57%, p = 0.009). The difference remained significant in the multivariate analysis.   CONCLUSION Even though the pharmacists' recommendations were followed in many cases in an ED, there is still room for improvement, especially for the surgical patients.   FUNDING The Amgros Research Foundation covered the costs for the independent specialists who reviewed the patient files.   TRIAL REGISTRATION NCT01723462 (clinicaltrial.gov).
Surgical mortality is considered a benchmark for measuring quality of care. This study quantifies the incidence of death on the day of elective pediatric surgery, which generally is considered preventable and might be considered a 'never' event. The authors conducted a retrospective analysis of national state inpatient databases from 1988 to 2007 that included elective pediatric surgical patients. A descriptive analysis of same-day mortality by demographics, surgical specialties, and age was performed. Of 835 880 elective pediatric surgical cases identified, 174 patients died on the day of surgery-that is, 2.1 deaths/10 000 cases. Surgical specialty mortality rates ranged from 0.06 (otolaryngology) to 17.4 (cardiothoracic surgery) deaths per 10 000 cases. Death on the day of elective pediatric surgery is rare, limiting its utility to compare performance in pediatric surgery. However, this metric may be useful at individual institutions as a case-finding tool for root-cause analysis in quality improvement efforts.
BACKGROUND This study aims to assess the public's understanding of the scope of the practice of plastic surgeons, to determine if there is a need to increase awareness of the nature of a plastic surgeon's work.   METHODOLOGY A cross-sectional study was performed. Participants were systematically selected from the White Pages for a telephone survey. The participants' demographics were recorded. Participants were excluded if they or anyone they knew had prior interactions with a plastic surgeon. Participants selected the most common area of specialization of plastic surgeons. The final set of questions determined their choice of surgeon in three different scenarios: breast reduction, excision of skin cancer from the facial region and hand trauma.   RESULTS Two hundred and thirteen of the 257 participants were eligible to complete the survey. Sixty-five per cent were female, with 38% between the ages of 46 and 65 years. The dominant field of practice was reconstructive surgery (36%). Just 19% of participants would consult plastic surgeons across the three clinical scenarios. Dermatologists (47%) were chosen over plastic surgeons (24%) to excise skin cancers from the face. Breast surgeons (53%) were chosen over plastic surgeons (23%) to perform breast reduction surgery. In hand trauma, 58% of participants would consult a hand surgeon and merely 10% would consult with plastic surgeons.   DISCUSSION The general public's understanding of plastic surgery is poor. This may be linked to the misunderstanding of specialist titles and lack of education regarding this field.
BACKGROUND In the past, surgical training has been based on traditional apprenticeship model of mentoring. To cope with the rapidly changing environment of modern surgery, the mentoring process may require significant modernization.   METHODS Literature for this review was identified by searching for the MeSH heading 쁬entors in Ovid MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO and Cochrane Library databases (1950 to September 2010). The literature was reviewed to specifically identify challenges of mentoring future surgeons and to delineate a framework to establish a mentor뱈entee relationship by means of a formal mentoring scheme.   RESULTS Multidimensional approaches, models and methods of delivering mentoring are essential to meet the challenges of modern surgery. We advocate a 10-stage approach to implement a formal mentoring scheme at local, national and international levels.   CONCLUSION Formalizing the mentoring process, with local, national and international schemes, will initiate mentoring relationships and cultivate a mentoring culture. Ultimately, this will maintain and improve patient care.
OBJECTIVE To examine Asian American (Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Indian subcontinent, Southeast Asian, Philippine and South Pacific Islands, and Middle East) representation in national organizations and editorial boards important in US academic surgery.   BACKGROUND Asian Americans are overrepresented in academic departments of surgery relative to their demographic proportion of US population. Not examined is their involvement in leadership positions in the field.   STUDY DESIGN Current rosters were surveyed for surgeons with Asian American surnames with federally supported research, members of leading surgical specialty organizations, residency review committees for surgical specialties, surgical boards of the American Board of Medical Specialties, and editorial boards of leading surgical journals.   RESULTS Asian Americans are principal investigators in 18.9% of National Institutes of Health-supported grants in departments of surgery, and 7.7% of Society of University Surgeons and 3.2% of American Surgical Association memberships. Asian American representation on governing boards of professional organizations is only 2.3%, and none on the Boards of Regents of the American College of Surgeons, the various American Board of Medical Specialties surgical boards and councils, the residency review committees for surgery, and governing councils of 7 of 10 professional organizations. Of 302 US surgeons on the editorial boards of 5 leading surgical journals, 6 were Asian Americans (2.0%).   CONCLUSIONS Asian American academic surgeons are absent from the governing boards of surgical organizations and peer-reviewed surgical journals, a situation that mentorship and the development of effective social networks though an Asian American surgeons' association may correct.
BACKGROUND The critical shortage of surgeons in many low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) prevents adequate responses to surgical needs, but the factors that affect surgeon migration have remained incompletely understood. The goal of this study was to examine the importance of personal, professional, and infrastructural factors on surgeon migration from LMICs to the United States. We hypothesized that the main drivers of surgeon migration can be addressed by providing adequate domestic surgical infrastructure, surgical training programs, and viable surgical career paths.   METHODS We conducted an internet-based nationwide survey of surgeons living in the US who originated from LMICs.   RESULTS 66 surgeons completed the survey. The most influential factors for primary migration were related to professional reasons (p  0.001). Nonprofessional factors, such as concern for remuneration, family, and security were significantly less important for the initial migration decisions, but adopted a more substantial role in deciding whether or not to return after training in the United States. Migration to the United States was initially considered temporary (44 %), and a majority of the surveyed surgeons have returned to their source countries in some capacity (56 %), often on multiple occasions (80 %), to contribute to clinical work, research, and education.   CONCLUSIONS This study suggests that surgically oriented medical graduates from LMICs migrate primarily for professional reasons. Initiatives to improve specialist education and surgical infrastructure in LMICs have the potential to promote retention of the surgical workforce. There may be formal ways for LMICs to gain from the international pool of relocated surgeons.
BACKGROUND Surgically treatable diseases weigh heavily on the lives of people in resource-poor countries. Though global surgical disparities are increasingly recognized as a public health priority, the extent of these disparities is unknown because of a lack of data. The present study sought to measure surgical and anesthesia infrastructure in Bangladesh as part of an international study assessing surgical and anesthesia capacity in low income nations.   METHODS A comprehensive survey tool was administered via convenience sampling at one public district hospital and one public tertiary care hospital in each of the seven administrative divisions of Bangladesh.   RESULTS There are an estimated 1,200 obstetricians, 2,615 general and subspecialist surgeons, and 850 anesthesiologists in Bangladesh. These numbers correspond to 0.24 surgical providers per 10,000 people and 0.05 anesthesiologists per 10,000 people. Surveyed hospitals performed a large number of operations annually despite having minimal clinical human resources and inadequate physical infrastructure. Shortages in equipment and/or essential medicines were reported at all hospitals and these shortages were particularly severe at the district hospital level.   CONCLUSIONS In order to meet the immense demand for surgical care in Bangladesh, public hospitals must address critical shortages in skilled human resources, inadequate physical infrastructure, and low availability of equipment and essential medications. This study identified numerous areas in which the international community can play a vital role in increasing surgical and anesthesia capacity in Bangladesh and ensuring safe surgery for all in the country.
BACKGROUND Motivation in teaching, mainly studied in disciplines outside of surgery, may also be an important part of intraoperative teaching. We explored techniques surgeons use to motivate learners in the operating room (OR).   METHODS Forty-four experienced surgeon teachers from multiple specialties participated in 9 focus groups about teaching in the OR. Focus groups were transcribed and subjected to qualitative thematic analysis by 3 reviewers through an iterative, rigorous process.   RESULTS Analysis revealed 8 motivational techniques. Surgeons used motivation techniques tacitly, describing multiple ways that they facilitate resident motivation while teaching. Two major categories of motivational techniques emerged: (1) the facilitation of intrinsic motivation; and (2) the provision of factors to stimulate extrinsic motivation.   CONCLUSIONS Surgeons unknowingly but tacitly and commonly use motivation in intraoperative teaching and use a variety of techniques to foster learners' intrinsic and extrinsic motivation. Motivating learners is 1 vital role that surgeon teachers play in nontechnical intraoperative teaching.
AIM To compare the Italian and UK specialist training programmes and the role of the specialist in a surgical discipline.   BACKGROUNDS Italian postgraduate medical and surgical trainees have the opportunity to spend up to 12 months in accredited foreign health facilities as part of their training programme.   MATERIALS AND METHODS A comparison between the Italian and the UK specialist training programmes structure, training methods, trainees assessments, board examinations and clinical duties and research opportunities of the specialist trainees is performed. Also the role of the specialist surgeon working within the Italian and the UK National Health Service is discussed.   RESULTS Several differences between the Italian and the UK training programmes and specialist surgeon role have been identified. Training programmes mainly differ in general structure and organization, duration, trainees' assessments and examinations. The Specialist surgeon in Italy is effectively a member of a team of specialists, led by a Director who has managerial and organizational duties and responsibilities, which include among the others the supervision and organization of the clinical activities of the other specialists. The specialist surgeon who works as a Consultant in the UK manages autonomously his own activities and duties, this resulting in a more independent approach to the profession. Each national system presents with unique and interesting characteristics.   CONCLUSION A mutual exchange of experience, information and methods between different countries with different specialist training programmes and career paths would be auspicable in order to aid the further growth and development of a more integrated and homogeneous European health system.
OBJECTIVE The development and increased use of genomic profiling has led to refinement of breast cancer treatment. This study sought to examine medical and surgical oncologists' perceptions of factors related to the translation and integration of Oncotype DX짰 (Genomic Health, Inc., Redwood City, CA, USA) into routine clinical care.   METHODS Twenty oncologists (10 medical and 10 surgical oncologists) participated in qualitative interviews. Questions centered on the following themes: oncologists' perceptions about the clinical utility of testing, the impact of patient preferences on the decision to test and use results to inform treatment decisions, methods of communicating risk associated with test results to patients, and benefits of and barriers to incorporating testing into multidisciplinary care settings.   RESULTS Oncologists found Oncotype DX test results useful in their practice but had concerns as well. These included that some oncologists either used testing inappropriately or placed undue emphasis on the results at the expense of other clinical information. The use of intermediate test results, which have less clear clinical implications, incorporating results with patient treatment preferences, and the use of testing in multidisciplinary teams were noted as specific challenges.   CONCLUSION Oncologists noted several benefits of testing and also many challenges, despite wide dissemination and common use. Education for health providers should include specific training in how to interpret and communicate the uncertainty inherent in genomic tests while integrating patient preferences to inform treatment decision making.
INTRODUCTION The aim of the work was to evaluate the implementation of Clavien - Dindo classification of surgical complications into a routine clinical praxis and to evaluate the results achieved at the university department of surgery.   MATERIAL AND METHODS Prospectively collected data of patients hospitalized at the Clinic of Surgery of the University Hospital in Hradec Kr찼lov챕 between January 2010 and September 2012 were retrospectively evaluated. Incidence, spectrum and severity of postoperative complications were evaluated according to individual surgical specializations.   RESULTS 9039 patients were operated and enrolled into the database during the time period from January 2010 to October 2012. A surgical complication was recorded in 1248 (12.9%) patiens, grade I. in 284 (3.4%) cases, grade II. in 384 (4.3%) cases, grade III in 370 (4.1%) cases, grade IV. in 67 (0.7%) patients. Death,i.e. grade V., occurred in 143 (1.43%) patients.   CONCLUSION Clavien - Dindo classification of surgical complications was successfully implemented into a routine clinical praxis at the department of surgery, University Hospital Hradec Kr찼lov챕. Wider use of this classification system would improve conditions for evaluation and comparison of results between different surgical approaches, surgeons or departments.
Needlestick, stab, scratch, and cut injuries are a common problem and a significant health hazard among healthcare workers. The aim of this review is to give an overview on the risk of infection in general, abdominal and vascular surgery and to suggest occupational safety measures. Furthermore, we want to discuss insurance-related aspects. If medical devices are contaminated with blood or other body fluids, there is a relevant risk of infection with hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The risk of transmission depends on the infection status of the patient, and on the immune status of the healthcare worker. In addition, the risk of infection is affected by the type and severity of injuries, by the quantity (volume) of blood, the time between injury and cleaning, and the administration of post-exposure prophylaxis. Prevention measures are an important focus in occupational medicine. Comprehensive programmes to prevent injuries (usage of safety devices, surgical gloves, and of disposal containers) have to be continuously considered to minimize risk of infection of healthcare workers.
OBJECTIVE To examine whether hospital type (children's hospital or generalist hospital) and surgeon specialty are associated with variations in surgical outcomes for hospitalized adolescents and young adults with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) requiring surgery.   METHODS The 2007-2009 Perspective Data Warehouse was used to identify a retrospective cohort study of all inpatients 16 to 25 years old who received surgery for IBD. Multivariate regression, clustered at the hospital level, examined the association of hospital type and surgical specialty with surgical complications and 30-day readmissions.   RESULTS Surgery was performed in 917 hospitalizations of 598 patients across 20 children's hospitals and 198 general hospitals by 566 general surgeons, 46 pediatric surgeons, and 305 colorectal surgeons. After adjustment, children's hospitals had higher predicted probabilities of surgical complication (predicted probability [PP]: 35% [95% confidence interval (CI): 28-42]) compared with general hospitals (PP: 26% [95% CI: 23-29]). Despite higher complications among children's hospitals, pediatric surgeons had lowest predicated probabilities of surgical complication or 30-day readmission (PP: 24% [95% CI: 10-39]) compared with general surgeons (PP: 39% [95% CI: 35-43]) and colorectal surgeons (PP: 35% [95% CI: 28-42]).   CONCLUSIONS Disparate outcomes for adolescents and young adults receiving care in children's versus generalist hospitals and from different types of surgeons reveal the need to better understand how practice setting and surgical specialty may modify outcomes for a population that traverses a variety of health care settings.
OBJECTIVES To collate the self-reported assessment of familiarity with some aspects of managerial competencies on the part of some surgeons and their observations on the managerial environment of their health institutions and draw appropriate policy implications.   DESIGN Cross-sectional study using a structured questionnaire.   SETTING The study was conducted during the 50th Annual Scientific Conference of the West African College of Surgeons, which was held in Calabar, Nigeria, from 6th to It 12th February 2010.   SUBJECTS One hundred and ten out of 150 surgeons who were attending the conference returned their filled questionnaires.   RESULTS Their familiarity with business and financial concepts was lacking on crucial ones related to marketing strategies. Respondent largely found the listed objections to advertisement of medical services as very appropriate. They preferred largely to interact with themselves in professional associations rather than with others in cross-cultural groupings. Funding (66.4%) and political/ethnic influences (43.9%) were rated as impacting very negatively on their health institutions, while the deployment of information communication technology to institutional processes was adjudged to be unsatisfactory.   CONCLUSIONS Most of the indices of core competencies in modern health leadership and management appeared deficient among our study participants and their health institutions managerial environments were equally deficient. We recommend for a well-focussed short time duration health management course for all physicians particularly specialists.
BACKGROUND Evidence from surgery shows that high volume is often associated with better outcomes. The aim of this study was to investigate this principle related to elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy practice.   METHODS A retrospective analysis of all conversions and complications for patients undergoing elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy was performed. Data was collected and then repeated after restrictions were implemented to concentrate practice. Hospital databases and patient notes were used to collect data.   RESULTS Between January 1999 and March 2004, 1605 laparoscopic cholecystectomies were performed by 8 surgeons. Case load varied from an average of <1 to 104 procedures per annum. Only 1 surgeon was an upper gastrointestinal specialist. Overall rates for conversion to open surgery were 4.9%, common bile duct injury was 0.31%, bile leak 0.75%, bowel injury 0.25%, haemorrhage 0.44% and death 0.06%, which met guidelines. Significant correlation between conversion and procedure number was identified (p=0.033) Between April 2006 and March 2010, 1820 laparoscopic cholecystectomies were performed by 4 surgeons. Case load varied from 23 to 268 procedures per annum, 2 surgeons were upper gastrointestinal specialists. Overall rates for conversion to open surgery were 3.5%, common bile duct injury 0.1%, bile leak 0.9%, bowel injury 0.21%, haemorrhage 0.16% and death 0.1%. Conversion rates were significantly lower in re-audit data (p=0.027), but remained lowest for the highest volume sub-specialist surgeons (p=0.016).   CONCLUSIONS Concentrating expertise to those surgeons with interest and commitment to laparoscopic cholecystectomy service led to standardisation and reduction in conversion rates. There is correlation between volume of surgery and outcomes.
Within the last decade, there has been a tremendous progress in understanding the molecular basis of cancer. In particular, the development and the characteristic features of cancer cells are being increasingly understood. The understanding of these molecular characteristics is mandatory for the development of novel, targeted therapeutic strategies and their integration into clinical practice. In addition, tumour genetics play a critically important role for hereditary cancer syndromes, with respect to both diagnostics and clinical decision-making. The aim of this review is to highlight general principles of tumour genetics from a visceral surgeon's point of view, although a comprehensive summary of all aspects would be beyond the scope of this article due to the complexity of the topic.
Pharmacogenomic studies have revealed a wide variation in the metabolism of codeine to its active metabolite, morphine. A particular subset of patients, known as ultrarapid metabolizers, possesses multiple copies of the CYP2D6 gene responsible for codeine metabolism. This has been linked to serious morbidity and mortality in pediatric patients leading to considerable debate regarding the use of codeine for analgesia in the pediatric population. The current study surveyed the current practice of codeine prescription in pediatric health care providers from a single tertiary care pediatric hospital. Of the 298 responders, 43.3% (129 of 298) continue to prescribe codeine for pain management in children. The vast majority of codeine prescribers were primary health care providers (89.1%). Most of the primary care practitioners were in office-based (42.6%) or hospital-based (45.7%) group practices. There was no significant difference in codeine use based on years of experience. Given the risks associated with this practice, increased education targeting this group appears warranted.
OBJECTIVE We aim to demonstrate that vitreoretinal surgery can be established in Nairobi, Kenya, by intermittent short visits of experienced surgeons combined with clinical/surgical observerships over a longer period of cooperation. This strategy might be a model for other developing countries.   DESIGN Time series over 11 years.   PARTICIPANTS 685 operations were performed over 11 years.   METHODS After the 1998 al-Qaeda bomb assault on the U.S. embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, the Ludwig-Maximilians-University M체nchen (Germany) provided materials for surgery of 42 victims with eye injuries. From the year 2000 onward, this equipment has been used to establish a training unit at the Kenyatta Hospital in Nairobi. In 1 annual 'project week,' 1 author (C-L.S.) performed vitreoretinal surgery at the University of Nairobi in cooperation with the Kenyatta National Hospital and supervised resident eye surgeons. After 7 years of training in Nairobi, clinical/surgical observerships of vitreoretinal surgeons and operating theatre staff were commenced in Munich by 4- to 12-week visits. The project week in Nairobi was carried on. Number, indications, operating surgeons, kind, difficulty, duration of operations, and preparation were recorded and evaluated.   RESULTS The percentage of operations by resident surgeons increased from 29% (in 2000) via 80% (in 2009) to 73% (in 2010) with a partial failure of the laser device. The learning curve of local surgeons is also reflected by an increase of the operations' difficulty with only a moderate increase in operation time and marked decrease of preparation time.   CONCLUSIONS A vitreoretinal unit has been established in Nairobi using our training model. This unit has the potential to train colleagues from other sub-Saharan countries. This strategy has advantages over long-term aid deployment of foreign physicians such as avoiding financial burden for the surgeons to be trained and improving the home facility, but it requires commitment for long-term cooperation.
PURPOSE The purpose of this study was to examine risk-adjusted associations between race and gender on postoperative morbidity, mortality, and resource utilization in pediatric surgical patients within the United States.   METHODS 101,083 pediatric surgical patients were evaluated using the U.S. national KID Inpatient Database (2003 and 2006): appendectomy (81.2%), pyloromyotomy (9.8%), intussusception (6.2%), decortication (1.9%), congenital diaphragmatic hernia repair (0.7%), and colonic resection for Hirschsprung's disease (0.2%). Patients were stratified according to gender (male: 63.1%, n=63,783) and race: white (n=58,711), Hispanic (n=26,118), black (n=9,103), Asian (n=1,582), Native American (n=474), and other (n=5,096). Multivariable logistic regression modeling was utilized to evaluate risk-adjusted associations between race, gender, and outcomes.   RESULTS After risk adjustment, race was independently associated with in-hospital death (p=0.02), with an increased risk for black children. Gender was not associated with mortality (p=0.77). Postoperative morbidity was significantly associated with gender (p<0.001) and race (p=0.01). Gender (p=0.003) and race (p<0.001) were further associated with increased hospital length of stay. Importantly, these results were dependent on operation type.   CONCLUSION Race and gender significantly affect postoperative outcomes following pediatric surgery. Black patients are at disproportionate risk for postoperative mortality, while black and Hispanic patients have increased morbidity and hospital resource utilization. While gender does not affect mortality, gender is a determinant of both postoperative morbidity and increased resource utilization.
INTRODUCTION Improved surgical outcomes in children have been associated with pediatric surgical specialization, previously defined by surgeon operative volume or fellowship training. The present study evaluates pediatric surgical outcomes through classifying surgeons by degrees of pediatric versus adult operative experience.   METHODS A cross-sectional study was performed using nationally representative hospital discharge data from 1998 to 2007. Patients under 18 years of age undergoing inpatient operations in neurosurgery, otolaryngology, cardiothoracic, general surgery, orthopedic surgery, and urology were included. An index was created, calculating the proportion of children treated by each surgeon. In-hospital mortality and length of stay were compared by index quartiles. Multivariate analysis was adjusted for patient and hospital characteristics.   RESULTS A total of 119,164 patients were operated on by 13,141 surgeons. Within cardiothoracic surgery, there were 1.78 (p=0.02) and 2.61 (p<0.01) increased odds of mortality comparing surgeons in the lowest two quartiles for pediatric specialization respectively with the highest quartile. For general surgery, a 2.15 (p=0.04) increase in odds for mortality was found when comparing surgeons between the lowest and the highest quartiles. Comparing the least to the most specialized surgeons, length of stay increased 1.14 days (p=0.02) for cardiothoracic surgery, 0.58 days (p=0.04) for neurosurgery, 0.23 days (p=0.02) for otolaryngology, and decreased by 1.06 days (p<0.01) for orthopedic surgery.   CONCLUSION The present study demonstrates that surgeons caring preferentially for children-as a proportion of their overall practice-generally have improved mortality outcomes in general and cardiothoracic surgery. These data suggest a benefit associated with increased referral of children to pediatric practitioners, but further study is required.
BACKGROUND Surgeons are at risk for developing work-related musculoskeletal symptoms (WMS). The present study aims to examine the physical factors and their association with WMS among pediatric laparoscopic surgeons.   METHODS A questionnaire consisting of 21 questions was created and mailed to 25 pediatric laparoscopic surgeons (LG). 23/25 surgeons (92%) completed the survey. The questionnaire was analyzed and then split into 2 groups. Group 1 (LG1) included surgeons with greater laparoscopic experience, and group 2 (LG2) included surgeons with less important laparoscopic experience. In addition, we constructed and sent to the same surgeons a similar questionnaire focused on WMS after an open procedure (OG) with the aim to compare results of LG with OG.   RESULTS The prevalence rate of WMS with shoulder symptoms was 78.2% in surgeons that performed laparoscopy for more than 10 years, with 60.8% also reporting other pain. In 66.6% this pain is evident only after a long-lasting procedure. Forty-four percent of these surgeons require painkillers at least twice a week. Fifty percent of these surgeons also suffer at home. Fifty-five and one half percent of surgeons indicate that this pain is related to their laparoscopic activity. Forty-three and a half percent think that laparoscopy is beneficial only for the patient but has a bad ergonomic effect for surgeons. Sixty-five and two-tenths percent think that robotic surgery can be helpful to improve ergonomics. Comparing the groups, WMS occur more frequently in LG (78.2%) than in OG (56.5%), but this difference was not statistically significant ((2)=0.05). In addition, WMS occur more frequently in LG1 (84.6%) than in LG2 (70%), but this difference was not statistically significant ((2)=0.05).   CONCLUSIONS These results confirmed a strong association between WMS and the number of laparoscopic procedures performed. Skilled laparoscopic surgeons have more pain than less skilled laparoscopic surgeons. WMS in the same group of surgeons are more frequent after laparoscopy than after open procedures. The majority of surgeons refer to shoulder symptoms.
BACKGROUND Flexible training options are sought by an increasing number of Australasian surgical trainees. Reasons include increased participation of women in the surgical workforce, postgraduate training and changing attitudes to family responsibilities. Despite endorsement of flexible training by the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons and Board in General Surgery, part-time (PT) training in General Surgery in Australia and New Zealand is not well established. A permanent 'stand-alone' PT training position was established at the Royal Adelaide Hospital in 2007 under the Surgical Education and Training Program. This position offered 12 months of General Surgical training on a 0.5 full-time (FT) equivalent basis with pro rata emergency and on-call commitments and was accredited for 6 months of General Surgical training. This paper reviews the PT training experience in South Australia.   METHODS De-identified logbook data were obtained from the South Australian Regional Subcommittee of the Board in General Surgery with consent of each of the trainees. Totals of operative cases were compared against matched FT trainees working on the same unit.   RESULTS Overall, PT trainees achieved comparable operative caseloads compared with their FT colleagues. All trainees included in this review have subsequently passed the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons Fellowship Examination in General Surgery and returned to FT workforce positions.   CONCLUSION This paper presents two validated models of PT training. Training, resource and regulatory requirements and individual and institutional barriers to flexible training are substantial. Successful PT models offer positive and beneficial training alternatives for General Surgical trainees and contribute to workforce flexibility.
OBJECTIVES To identify independent factors influencing job satisfaction of academic surgeons within their first 10 years after board certification.   BACKGROUND DATA Job satisfaction is increasingly recognized as a crucial factor for high performance of individuals and teams in most organizations. Sophisticated tools are now available to assess job satisfaction in medicine.   METHODS A survey among 439 faculty surgeons from 16 European countries, United States, and Canada was conducted in 2011. Satisfaction at work was analyzed using the validated Global Job Satisfaction (GJS) instrument (score range, -36 to +36), modified to an extended version (eGJS) (score range, -87 to +87) covering additional personal and environmental factors. Independent factors were identified with multiple logistic regression analysis.   RESULTS Response rate was high at 59% (439/744). Median age of responders was 39 years, with 17% women. North American surgeons scored higher on the eGJS when compared with Europeans (median: 21 vs. 33, respectively, P < 0.001). The surgical specialty with the highest median eGJS score was colorectal, whereas general surgery scored lowest (median: 33 vs 7, respectively, P = 0.002). On multivariate analysis, independent factors of high job satisfaction included protected time for research (odds ratio [OR]: 9), good team relationship (OR: 7), female sex (OR: 5), having a partner (OR: 4), feeling enthusiastic about work (OR: 4), being pleased with life accomplishments (OR: 4), having the standard of living one deserves (OR: 3), and clinical autonomy (OR: 3). In contrast, independent predictors of poor job satisfaction were feeling frustrated by work (ie, a burnout item) (OR: 37), worrying about personal life at work (OR: 3), and having to work too many weekends (OR: 3).   CONCLUSIONS Satisfaction in young faculty members mostly relates to research opportunities, clinical autonomy, burnout, and lifestyle. Understanding satisfaction factors may improve productivity and competence.
BACKGROUND The perioperative environment can be hazardous to patients and providers alike. Although many risks are best addressed preoperatively, some hazards require constant attention by the surgeon, anesthesiologist, and staff in the operating room. In a previous article, the authors discussed preoperative aspects of patient safety. In this article, the authors review intraoperative and postoperative risks and techniques to decrease these risks.   METHODS The authors reviewed the literature regarding operating room safety, both primary research and secondary reviews, via multiple PubMed queries and literature searches. Topics most relevant to inpatient plastic surgery were included in the final analysis and summarized, as a full review of each topic is beyond the scope of this article.   RESULTS Several intraoperative and postoperative risks were identified, in addition to methods designed to decrease the incidence of those risks, complications, and other adverse events among plastic surgeons and their patients.   CONCLUSIONS In this article covering intraoperative and postoperative hazards, the authors build upon a previous article addressing preoperative risks to patients during inpatient plastic surgery. Although neither article covers an exhaustive list of potential risks, the goal is to provide the modern plastic surgeon with the means to prevent common adverse events, as well as the tools to research new hazards.
BACKGROUND Debates about the difficult job market for young endocrine surgeons are ongoing. This study aimed to analyze the practice patterns and work-related satisfaction levels of recently trained endocrine surgeons.   METHODS An anonymous survey was utilized. Participants were divided into 3 groups: 'Young' (<3 years in practice), 'middle' (3-5 years), and 'older' (>5 years).   RESULTS Fifty-six of 78 surgeons (72%) responded to the survey. Time in practice ranged from 1 to 9 years (mean, 3.9 짹 0.28). Forty-five (80%) described their practice as academic. Participants performed 244.1 짹 17.8 operations within the last year; 75.4 짹 3.3% were endocrine cases. More surgeons in the 'young' group have academic practices (92%) and joined established endocrine surgery groups (54%) versus older surgeons (67% and 42%; P = .05). Of surgeons in the 'young' group, 4% started their own practice versus 33% in the 'older' group (P = .04). Level of satisfaction with financial compensation (3.2 on a 4-point scale versus 2.9) and lifestyle (3.6 vs 3.1) was also higher in the younger group (P = .009).   CONCLUSION Despite widespread speculation about scarcity of academic jobs after fellowship, recently trained endocrine surgeons are more likely to practice in academic settings and join established endocrine surgery practices when compared with older surgeons. Overall satisfaction level is higher among recently trained surgeons.
BACKGROUND While the primary goal of ranking applicants for surgical residency training positions is to identify the candidates who will subsequently perform best as surgical residents, the effectiveness of the ranking process has not been adequately studied.   METHODS We evaluated our general surgery resident recruitment process between 2001 and 2011 inclusive, to determine if our recruitment ranking parameters effectively predicted subsequent resident performance. We identified 3 candidate ranking parameters (United States Medical Licensing Examination [USMLE] Step 1 score, unadjusted ranking score [URS], and final adjusted ranking [FAR]), and 4 resident performance parameters (American Board of Surgery In-Training Examination [ABSITE] score, PGY1 resident evaluation grade [REG], overall REG, and independent faculty rating ranking [IFRR]), and assessed whether the former were predictive of the latter. Analyses utilized Spearman correlation coefficient.   RESULTS We found that the URS, which is based on objective and criterion based parameters, was a better predictor of subsequent performance than the FAR, which is a modification of the URS based on subsequent determinations of the resident selection committee. USMLE score was a reliable predictor of ABSITE scores only. However, when we compared our worst residence performances with the performances of the other residents in this evaluation, the data did not produce convincing evidence that poor resident performances could be reliably predicted by any of the recruitment ranking parameters. Finally, stratifying candidates based on their rank range did not effectively define a ranking cut-off beyond which resident performance would drop off.   CONCLUSIONS Based on these findings, we recommend surgery programs may be better served by utilizing a more structured resident ranking process and that subsequent adjustments to the rank list generated by this process should be undertaken with caution.
OBJECTIVES The Association of Program Directors in Surgery/American College of Surgeons national skills curriculum provides residency programs with a great educational tool for their residents. Our objective was to assess the feasibility, value, and cost required to administer a procedural workshop for general surgery residents based on phase II of the national skills curriculum.   DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS Surgery faculty instructed residents on a variety of level-appropriate surgical procedures during a procedural workshop using 4 training models (2 cadaver torsos and 2 pigs). The educational value of the workshop, the quality of teaching, the instruction and feedback received, and the training models used were evaluated by participants on a 10-point Likert scale. Resident performance and workshop cost were also assessed.   RESULTS Seven faculty instructed 16 residents (postgraduate year 1-4) on 23 surgical procedures (median 4 procedures per resident). Participants rated the overall value of the workshop as 8 (range, 7-10). Residents rated the quality of teaching as 9 (range, 6-10) and the quality of instruction and feedback received as 8.5 (range, 6-10). Overall resident performance was rated as 8 (range, 5-10) by faculty. The factors most positively impacting the quality of the workshop were reported to be the close interaction between residents and faculty, the training models, and the protected time. Sixty-eight percent of participants indicated that both cadaver and pig models were necessary for this course, and all participants believed that such workshops should be part of the general surgery curriculum. Overall cost reached just under $10,000 excluding supplies and faculty time.   CONCLUSIONS The feasibility of a cadaveric and animal-based procedural workshop for surgery residents based on phase II of the national skills curriculum was demonstrated. While very resource-intensive and costly, the educational value of this workshop was rated highly by residents and faculty because of their close interaction in a relaxed environment. Such workshops should be incorporated into the surgical curriculum.
OBJECTIVE The purpose of this study was to determine the impact of the initiation of a pediatric surgery fellowship on general surgery resident operative volume at 1 major academic institution.   DESIGN Retrospective review of operative records obtained from the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) general surgery resident and pediatric surgery fellow case logs. Data collected included number and type of pediatric index cases per year, number of total pediatric surgery cases per year, and number of total cases logged as primary surgeon to date.   SETTING Vanderbilt University School of Medicine Department of Surgery, which has an accredited general surgery program, finishes 7 chief residents per year during the study period, and instituted a new pediatric surgery fellowship in 2007.   PARTICIPANTS Case logs submitted by third and fourth year general surgery residents and first and second year pediatric surgery fellows were studied.   RESULTS The number of pediatric attending surgeons, relative value units (RVUs), and hospital admissions increased from 2003 to 2011. The median number of pediatric index cases performed by a resident decreased after the onset of fellowship from 34 cases to 23.5 cases per year (p < 0.001). The median number of total cases that residents performed on the pediatric surgery rotation also decreased from 74 to 53 cases per year after onset of the fellowship (p < 0.001).   CONCLUSIONS Even with an increase in the number of attending surgeons, RVUs, and admissions, the fellowship resulted in a decrease in general surgery resident index and overall case volume in pediatric surgery. Although operative volume is only 1 measure of surgical educational value, these findings suggest that the addition of surgical fellowships affects the educational experience of general surgery residents. We recommend that residency programs establish goals and calculate any potential impact on general surgery resident case volume before initiating a new surgical fellowship.
OBJECTIVE Operating room (OR) emergencies, such as fire, anaphylaxis, cardiac arrest, and exsanguination, are infrequent, but high-risk situations that can result in significant morbidity and mortality. An exsanguination scenario involving a pregnant trauma patient in the OR was developed for surgery residents with the objectives of improving overall team performance when activating an emergency response system, identifying a team leader, initiating an exsanguination protocol, following advanced cardiac life support guidelines, and recognizing the mother as the first patient.   STUDY DESIGN During 6 months, 171 OR staff members of the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania participated in a prospective study in which randomly selected groups of surgery residents, anesthesia residents, and perioperative nurses were trained in a simulated exsanguination and cardiac arrest emergency. Upon arrival to the simulation center, groups of trainees were assigned to a simulated OR equipped with a SimMan 3G (Laerdal, Norway) and a session moderator. The scenario started with a pregnant patient in hemorrhagic shock, bleeding from a carotid injury, ultimately leading to cardiac arrest. Each group did an initial 'cold' simulation without any prior training or knowledge of the scenario, followed by a didactic training session, and ending with a 'warm' simulation.   SETTING Penn Medicine Clinical Simulation Center at 1800 Lombard Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.   RESULTS Among 156 participants, 50% reported understanding their role in an OR exsanguination emergency pretraining, compared with 98% who understood it posttraining (p < 0.001). For activation of the exsanguination protocol, 50% understood how to do it pretraining, compared with 98% posttraining (p = 0.004). The time needed to complete 8 clinically significant tasks was documented pre- and posttraining, with a statistically significant improvement in all tasks.   CONCLUSIONS The results of this simulated exsanguination emergency demonstrate that team training using a high-fidelity mannequin is an effective way to train OR personnel, on how to manage exsanguinating traumatic patients in a high-risk surgical emergency.
BACKGROUND The American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (NSQIP) and the Surgical Care Improvement Program (SCIP) can be utilized to develop quality initiatives to improve surgical care. Understanding the fundamentals of quality measures provides insight to the six Accreditation Council on Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) competencies. Resident education needs a robust exposure to quality measures, such as NSQIP and SCIP to prepare surgeons for tomorrow's healthcare system.   METHODS The resident champion (RC) position is a dedicated research year between the PGY-2 and PGY-3 as a way to introduce residents to NSQIP and the importance of quality improvement. The resident partners with the NSQIP clinical reviewer to analyze data, develop quality improvement projects, implement these initiatives, and re-examine quality performance.   RESULTS Over the last 24 months, there have been numerous performance improvement initiatives and projects implemented at our facility as a direct result of the RC's efforts and their participation within the performance improvement committees. In addition, the projects led to multiple presentations at national conferences.   CONCLUSIONS A dedicated year in performance improvement has benefited our residents with a working knowledge of quality measures and our institution with multiple projects that have yielded significant improvements in the quality of patient care.
OBJECTIVE Professionalism, an Accreditation Commission for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) competency, embraces the concept of adherence to ethical principles. Despite this, most surgical residencies do not currently include ethics as part of their core curriculum. Further, expertise in effectively managing ethical dilemmas is frequently obtained via modeling after the attending physician. This study evaluated surgical faculty (SF) and residents (SR) on their understanding of basic ethical principles and their overall confidence in translation of these principles into clinical practice. The objective was to determine if there are any differences in the overall levels of knowledge and confidence in ethics between SR and SF.   DESIGN AND SETTING Immediately before the first session of a Kamangar Grant supported monthly Ethics Forum, all SF and SR completed a Pre-Curriculum Questionnaire (PCQ) on their knowledge about ethical principles and their confidence in dealing with ethical issues. PQC contained 13 multiple-choice and true/false knowledge questions and 8 questions evaluating confidence rated on a 5-point Likert scale.   PARTICIPANTS Surgical faculty (SF) (n = 16) and SR (n = 36). Knowledge and confidence scores were compared between SR and SF, using Student t-test analysis to evaluate differences between groups.   RESULTS No significant differences were found in ethical knowledge scores between faculty and residents. Faculty confidence is higher than resident (p < 0.05). Further, female faculty confidence is higher than that of their male counterparts (p < 0.05).   CONCLUSIONS While SF are more confident in their ethical decision-making, their fundamental knowledge base in ethics is not different from that of SR. Female SF report greater self-confidence over their male counterparts. In total, SF may not possess the foundation to effectively mentor residents in appropriate ethical principles and their translation to clinical practice. This study supports the need for both SR and SF to engage in an integrated education program in ethics to promote on-going dialogue in this complex topic.
BACKGROUND Academic medical centers strive for clinical excellence with operational efficiency and financial solvency, which requires institutions to retain productive and skillful surgical specialists. Faculty workplace perceptions, overall satisfaction, and intent to leave are relationships that have not been examined previously among US surgeons in academic medicine. We hypothesize that critical factors related to workplace satisfaction and engagement could be identified as important for enhancing institutional retention of academic surgeons.   STUDY DESIGN The 2011-2012 Association of American Medical Colleges Faculty Forward Engagement Survey evaluated demographic variables, physician workplace satisfaction, and overall engagement among faculty subgroups, including comparison of surgical and nonsurgical clinicians. Multiple regression analysis (棺혻= standard regression coefficient) was performed to identify critical factors most closely related to surgeon satisfaction and intent to leave their institutions.   RESULTS A total of 1,356 of 1,949 (70%) surgeons from 14 medical schools responded across different faculty subgroups, and comparisons were made with 1,105 nonsurgical clinicians. Multiple regression indicated that the strongest predictors of surgeons' overall satisfaction with their department included department governance (棺혻= 0.36; p < 0.001), collegiality and collaboration (棺혻= 0.23; p < 0.001), and relationship with supervisor (棺혻= 0.17; p < 0.001). Although compensation and benefits were important (棺혻= 0.08; p < 0.001), these did not rank as the most important factors. Promotion equality (odds ratio혻= 0.62; p < 0.05), collegiality and collaboration (odds ratio혻= 0 .51; p < 0.05), and nature of their work (odds ratio혻= 0.52; p < 0.05) were most closely related to intent to leave the medical school within 1 to 2 years.   CONCLUSIONS In the largest survey focusing on workplace factors affecting surgical faculty satisfaction and intent to leave, we conclude that institutional understanding of, and improvement in, specific work environment factors can enhance recruitment and retention of academic surgeons.
OBJECTIVES Although international guidelines state that supervised exercise therapy (SET) should be offered to all patients with intermittent claudication (IC), SET appears to be underutilised in clinical practice. The aim of this study was to document current opinions of Dutch vascular surgeons on SET as treatment option for peripheral arterial occlusive disease (PAOD).   MATERIALS AND METHODS Vascular surgeons and fellows in vascular surgery were asked to complete a 24-question survey either at the 2011 Annual Meeting of the Dutch Society for Vascular Surgery or online.   RESULTS Ninety-one participants, including 83 vascular surgeons (51% of all Dutch vascular surgeons), completed the survey. The respondents would refer 75.4% of newly diagnosed patients with IC for SET. SET was considered less useful in patients with IC and major (cardiopulmonary) co-morbidity or a significant iliac artery stenosis. In critical limb ischaemia, the combination of SET and angioplasty was considered useful in 71.9%. Respondents regarded patient satisfaction (63.3%) and improvement in pain-free or maximal walking ability (26.6%) as clinically most relevant goals of SET. Most (84.4%) agreed that SET should also include lifestyle management.   CONCLUSION Although the vast majority of Dutch vascular surgeons consider SET as an important treatment option for PAOD, SET should receive more emphasis in clinical practice since arguments not to refer for SET are outdated. Furthermore, vascular surgeons agree that lifestyle management should be integrated in SET.
Training times and the working week have been shortened but the amount needed to be learned remains the same. This article demonstrates how trainees in surgery can incorporate learning opportunities into their normal working day.
Details of the modern history of paediatric surgery in the United Kingdom with particular emphasis on the 3 main training centres in England in the 1960s to 1970s are discussed. The genesis of the National Health Service and of the British Association of Paediatric Surgeons and their influence on the establishment and sitting of regional centres, education and training, and centralization of rare conditions is highlighted.
Passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) has stimulated wide debate in the medical and surgical community. Endorsed by the American Medical Association and a number of primary care-focused organizations, the American College of Surgeons (ACS) and nearly all other surgical associations opposed the bill. This divergence stems not from direct disagreement over provisions in the bill but from opposition to or support of certain provisions with direct implications for the physicians represented by a given organization, as well as the relative importance of provisions for which these organizations share a common opinion. Regarding the field of pediatric plastic surgery, the surgical perspective of the ACS and the American Society of Plastic Surgeons and the medical perspective of the American Academy of Pediatrics align on many issues. Given the lack of specificity of any of the provisions for a field as specialized as pediatric plastic surgery, this review will focus on broader implications of the PPACA both for medical and surgical needs of pediatric patients and for the surgeons providing their care. The provisions of the PPACA are distributed along an implementation timeline, with some major changes having already occurred. The popularity of some of the early provisions, many pertaining to the pediatric population, has implications for any attempt at repeal of the law as a whole in coming years. Despite its daunting length, the PPACA can be approached by considering its provisions in 4 major categories: increased consumer protections, increased accountability for insurers, increased access to affordable care, and quality and cost improvement.
Craniofacial surgeons repair a wide variety of soft and hard tissues that produce the clinical expertise to recognize the need for an improved device or novel regenerative stem cell or use of molecules that may dramatically change the way clinical care for improved patient outcomes. The business pathway to bring a concept to clinical care requires knowledge, mentoring, and a team of experts in business and patent law.
Evidence-based medicine is a vital process for maintaining and improving quality and value in health care. However, evidence-based practice is most limited by the availability of research and outcomes data. Although randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have been identified by numerous research organizations as the criterion standard for research methodology (eg, 'level I evidence'), the execution of well-designed RCTs has proved either challenging or impossible in many surgical fields and with rare disease conditions. In particular, craniofacial and plastic surgery has been noted to be lacking in both the number and quality of RCTs. Many reasons are discussed for this dearth of research including inadequate sample size and challenges in randomization, blinding, and clinical equipoise. Yet, data for outcomes assessment are highly valued by surgeons and by consumers and payers. Therefore, alternative and more practical means for research and data collection must be sought. Observational studies of clinical practice are particularly useful for outcomes assessment despite relegation to a lower tier of evidence (eg, 'level II evidence'). Functional databases with well-defined processes for data collection, called medical data registries, are an essential informatics tool to collect and store outcomes data and produce high-quality observational, practice-based research studies. A properly designed and implemented registry can provide surgeons with an abundance of data to perform research and quality improvement projects. In fact, registries may be superior in many ways to RCTs for craniofacial and plastic surgeons both pragmatically and functionally. In this commentary, we discuss the production of such registries in the framework of evidence-based practice and the relevant studies in craniofacial surgery.
BACKGROUND The influence of different hospital and surgeon volumes on short-term survival after hepatic resection is not clearly clarified. By taking the known prognostic factors into account, the purpose of this study is to assess the combined effects of hospital and surgeon volume on short-term survival after hepatic resection.   METHODS 13,159 patients who underwent hepatic resection between 2002 and 2006 were identified in the Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database. Data were extracted from it and short-term survivals were confirmed through 2006. The Cox proportional hazards model was used to assess the relationship between survival and different hospital, surgeon volume and caseload combinations.   RESULTS High-volume surgeons in high-volume hospitals had the highest short-term survivals, following by high-volume surgeons in low-volume hospitals, low-volume surgeons in high-volume hospitals and low-volume surgeons in low-volume hospitals. Based on Cox proportional hazard models, although high-volume hospitals and surgeons both showed significant lower risks of short-term mortality at hospital and surgeon level analysis, after combining hospital and surgeon volume into account, high-volume surgeons in high-volume hospitals had significantly better outcomes; the hazard ratio of other three caseload combinations ranging from 1.66 to 2.08 (p<0.001) in 3-month mortality, and 1.28 to 1.58 (p<0.01) in 1-year mortality.   CONCLUSIONS The combined effects of hospital and surgeon volume influenced the short-term survival after hepatic resection largely. After adjusting for the prognostic factors in the case mix, high-volume surgeons in high-volume hospitals had better short-term survivals. Centralization of hepatic resection to few surgeons and hospitals might improve patients' prognosis.
BACKGROUND When surgeons decide to become surgeons has important implications. If the decision is made prior to or early in medical school, surgical education can be more focused on surgical diseases and resident skills.   METHODS To determine when surgeons - compared with their nonsurgical colleagues - decide on their medical path, residents in surgery, internal medicine, obstetrics and gynecology, pediatrics, psychiatry, and emergency medicine were surveyed. Timing of residency choice, demographic data, personal goals, and reason for residency choice were queried.   RESULTS A total of 234 residents responded (53 surgical residents). Sixty-two percent of surgeons reported that they were 'fairly certain' of surgery before medical school, 13% decided during their preclinical years, and 25% decided during their clerkship years. This compares with an aggregate 40%, 7%, and 54%, respectively, for the other 5 residency specialties. These differences were statistically significant (P = .001). When the 234 residents were asked about their primary motivation for choosing their field, 51% pointed to expected job satisfaction and 44% to intellectual curiosity, and only 3% mentioned lifestyle, prestige, or income.   CONCLUSIONS General surgery residents decide on surgery earlier than residents in other programs. This may be advantageous, resulting in fast-tracking of these medical students in acquiring surgical knowledge, undertaking surgical research, and early identification for surgical residency programs. Surgical training in the era of the 80-hour work week could be enhanced if medical students bring much deeper knowledge of surgery to their first day of residency.
The American Academy of Pediatrics, with the collaboration of the Surgical Sections of the American Academy of Pediatrics, has created referral recommendations intended to serve as voluntary practice parameters to assist general pediatricians in determining when and to whom to refer their patients for pediatric surgical specialty care. It is recognized that these recommendations may be difficult to implement, because communities vary in terms of access to major pediatric medical centers. Limited access does not negate the value of the recommendations, however, because the child who needs specialized surgical and anesthetic care is best served by the skills of the appropriate pediatric surgical team. Major congenital anomalies, malignancies, major trauma, and chronic illnesses (including those associated with preterm birth) in infants and children should be managed by pediatric medical subspecialists and pediatric surgical specialists at pediatric referral centers that can provide expertise in many areas, including the pediatric medical subspecialties and surgical specialties of pediatric radiology, pediatric anesthesiology, pediatric pathology, and pediatric intensive care. The optimal management of the child with complex problems, chronic illness, or disabilities requires coordination, communication, and cooperation of the pediatric surgical specialist with the child's primary care pediatrician or physician.
OBJECTIVE Pediatric surgical procedures are being performed in a variety of hospitals with large differences in surgical volume. We examined the frequency and variety of inpatient pediatric surgical procedures in the United States by hospital type and geographic region using a nationally representative sample.   METHODS The 2009 Kids' Inpatient Database for patients <18 years old was used to calculate surgical frequencies by using International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification, (ICD-9-CM) codes. We performed stratified analysis by hospital type (free-standing children's hospital, children's unit within an adult hospital, and general hospital) and geographic region (South, West, Midwest, Northeast) to compare frequencies of surgical procedures.   RESULTS A total of 216081 procedures were projected for 2009 with the top 20 procedures accounting for >90% of cases. As many as 40% of all pediatric inpatient surgical procedures are being performed in adult general hospitals. Infrequent complex low-volume neonatal surgical procedures (pullthrough for Hirschsprung disease, surgery for malrotation, esophageal atresia repair, and diaphragmatic hernia repair) were 6.8 to 16 times more likely to occur in a children's hospital. Significant regional variation in procedure frequency rates occurred for appendectomy and cholecystectomy.   CONCLUSIONS This report is the first to characterize pediatric surgical inpatient volume in the United States. Such data may influence the distribution of pediatric surgeons, number of trainees, and training curricula for pediatric surgeons, pediatricians, general surgeons and other surgical specialists who might operate on children. In addition, it raises the question of whether complex pediatric surgical procedures should preferably be performed at dedicated high volume children's hospitals.
INTRODUCTION The registration of surgical complications is an important quality indicator of hospital medical care. Previous research has suggested that surgeons only record certain complications after discharge. The extent and impact of this potential under-recording of post-discharge complications is unknown. Therefore, we aimed to determine the frequency, type, and grade of post-discharge complications as reported by patients and their surgeons.   METHODS A prospective cohort study was performed in the Department of Surgery of a University Medical Center. From December 2008 until August 2009, all adult surgical patients were interviewed by phone or questionnaire 1 month after their discharge to inquire about any new complications after discharge. These complications were compared with the surgeon-reported post-discharge complications and letters from the outpatient clinic as documented in the patients' medical files.   RESULTS A total of 976 patients were included. Patients reported more complications (659) than did surgeons (465), especially psychological disturbances (4.2 vs. 0 %). A medical consult was needed in 527 (80 %) of the patient-reported complications. Of all patient-reported complications, 291 (44 %) resulted in a visit to the outpatient clinic, 144 (22 %) in a consultation with a general practitioner, and 92 (14 %) led to referral to a hospital; 743 (76 %) were treated non-operatively.   CONCLUSION Surgeons are unaware of many of the complications their patients experience after discharge. These post-discharge complications are important to patients and are therefore relevant to be aware of and to act upon whenever necessary.
BACKGROUND The integrated model of plastic surgery education, shortly to become the standard for all 6-year programs, has set minimal but no maximal exposure to plastic surgery. The authors hypothesized that the first 3 years of integrated training will show variability among residency programs.   METHODS Rotation schedules for all 42 integrated programs were analyzed for plastic surgery versus 18 nonplastic surgery rotations for postgraduate years 1, 2, and 3 as well as cumulatively for the first 3 years. Rotations 'strongly suggested' by the Residency Review Committee on Plastic Surgery and American Board of Plastic Surgery were also examined.   RESULTS Postgraduate years 1 through 3 spent a wide range of 3 to 19 months (SD 짹 4.9 months) on plastic surgery (mean, 9.1 months). General surgery also varied dramatically, with 8 to 21 months (SD 짹 4.0 months) of exposure (mean, 16.3 months). Surgical subspecialty rotations ranged substantially from 1 to 6 months (SD 짹 1.0 months). Plastic surgery exposure was greater in programs based within plastic surgery departments than within divisions (13.8 versus 8.3 months, p < 0.005). Eighteen programs (42.9 percent) had dedicated hand surgery rotations, while seven (16.7 percent) had time dedicated for research. There was also wide variability in the inclusion of 18 nonplastic surgery rotations as well as specific 'strongly suggested' rotations.   CONCLUSIONS The plastic surgery experience in the first 3 years of residency training varies by a greater than 6-fold difference among integrated programs. This was also found in the 2.5-fold and 6-fold differences in general surgery and subspecialty surgery experiences. Since standardized residency training is an expectation by both accrediting bodies and the public, this variability may warrant closer attention.
BACKGROUND Multidisciplinary treatment guidelines for Dupuytren disease can aid in optimizing the quality of care for patients with this disorder. Therefore, this study aimed to achieve consensus on a multidisciplinary treatment guideline for Dupuytren disease.   METHODS A European Delphi consensus strategy was initiated. A systematic review reporting on the effectiveness of interventions was conducted and used as an evidence-based starting point for this study. In total, 39 experts (hand surgeons, hand therapists, and physical medicine and rehabilitation physicians) participated in the Delphi consensus strategy. Each Delphi round consisted of a questionnaire, an analysis, and a feedback report.   RESULTS After four Delphi rounds, consensus was achieved on the description, symptoms, and diagnosis of Dupuytren disease. No nonsurgical interventions were included in the guideline. Needle and open fasciotomy, and a limited fasciectomy and dermofasciectomy, were seen as suitable surgical techniques for Dupuytren disease. Factors relevant for choosing one of these surgical techniques were identified and divided into patient-related (age, comorbidity), disease-related (palpable cord, previous surgery in the same area, skin involvement, time of recovery, recurrences), and surgeon-related (years of experience) factors. Associations of these factors with the choice of a specific surgical technique were reported in the guideline. Postsurgical rehabilitation should always include instructions and exercise therapy; postsurgical splinting should be performed on indication. Relevant details for the use of surgical and postsurgical interventions were described.   CONCLUSION This treatment guideline is likely to promote further discussion on related clinical and scientific issues and may therefore contribute to better treatment of patients with Dupuytren disease.
PURPOSE Surgeons are at risk for developing work-related musculoskeletal symptoms (WMS). The present study aims to compare laparoscopy and SILS ergonomy among pediatric surgeons.   METHODS A questionnaire formed by 17 questions was mailed to 14 pediatric surgeons, seven with a large experience in laparoscopy and seven in SILS. All surgeons completed the survey. The questionnaires were focused on the type of laparoscopic or SILS activity, location and type of pain, need for drugs and its physical consequences. Results were analyzed using (2) test.   RESULTS Results indicated a similar incidence of WMS with shoulder symptoms (>75%) in both groups. In laparoscopic group this pain is evident only after a long lasting procedure, while in SILS group the pain is present after each procedure performed. SILS surgeons used painkillers and other therapies statistically more frequently than laparoscopic group ((2) = 0.001).   CONCLUSIONS This study confirms there is a strong association between WMS and MIS surgery. The incidence of pain is similar in both groups. Pain was present only after long lasting procedures in laparoscopic group, while SILS surgeons have pain after each procedure performed. In addition SILS surgeons use more frequently painkillers and other therapies compared to laparoscopic surgeons. In conclusion, it seems that SILS has a worse ergonomy compared to laparoscopy.
The Monastery of Guadalupe was an important medical science teaching center from late Middle Ages until 1835, as a result of the high qualification of its professionals, its excellent facilities and perfect organization. Subsequently, we analyze the origin of the monastery and its government, the hospitals it held, its organization and functioning, and medical practice. We conclude with selected thoughts about the consideration of the Monastery as a School of Medicine, and a mention of some outstanding caregivers.
INTRODUCTION The purpose of this study was to document the surgical experience of the Role 3 Multinational Medical Unit (R3MMU) at Kandahar Airfield Base while Canada was the lead nation for the facility. This study will help inform on future staffing, training, and deployment issues of field hospitals on military missions.   METHODS From February 2, 2006, to October 15, 2009, the Canadian Forces Health Services served as the lead nation for the R3MMU. We retrospectively reviewed the electronic and the actual operative database during this timeframe to assess surgical workload, types of surgical procedures performed, and the involved anatomic regions of the surgical procedures.   RESULTS During this timeframe, there were 6,735 operative procedures performed on 4,434 patients. The majority of our patients were Afghan nationals, with Afghan civilians representing 34.8%, Afghan National Security Forces 31.6%, and North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces 25.3%. The number of operative procedures by specialty were 3,329 in orthopedic surgery (49.4%), 2,053 general surgery (30.5%), 930 oral maxillofacial surgery (13.8%), and 272 neurosurgery (6%). The most frequently operated on body region was the soft tissue, followed by the extremities and then the abdomen. Thoracic operations were very infrequent.   CONCLUSION Our operative data were slightly different from historical controls. Hopefully, this data will help with planning for future deployments of field hospitals on military missions.
The training of residents in abdominal wall surgery is a fundamental aspect of surgical training, representing globally 20% of its activity. In this paper, we analyze the current state of resident training in this kind of surgery in Spain, taking into account the broad spectrum it covers: general services, specific functional units, ambulatory surgery programs. To do this, based on the specifications of the specialty program, specific data were used from several different sources of direct information and a review of the results obtained by residents in hernia surgery. In general, our residents agree with their training and the recorded results are in line with objectives outlined in the program. However, it would be important to structure their teaching schedules, a rotation period in any specific unit and their involvement in outpatient surgery programs.
BACKGROUND Despite the close relationship between hospital volume and mortality after pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD), the role of surgeon volume still remains an open issue. Retrospective multi-institutional reviews considered only in-hospital mortality, whereas no data about major complications are available so far. The aim of this study is to assess the independent impact of surgeon volume on outcome after PD in a single high-volume institution.   METHODS Demographics and clinical and surgical variables were prospectively collected on 610 patients who underwent PD from August 2001 to August 2009. The cutoff value to categorize high- and low-volume surgeons (HVS and LVS, respectively) was 12 PD/year. The primary endpoint was operative mortality (death within 30-day post-discharge). Secondary endpoints were morbidity, pancreatic fistula (PF), and length of hospital stay (LOS).   RESULTS In the whole series, mortality was 4.1%, overall morbidity was 61.3%, and PF rate was 27.5%. Two HVS performed 358 PD (58.6%), while six LVS performed 252 PD (41.4%). Mortality was 3.9% for HVS and 4.3% for LVS (p=0.84). The major complication rate was similar for HVS and LVS (14.5% vs. 16.2%). The PF rate was higher for LVS (32.4% vs. 24.1%, p=0.03). The mean LOS was 15.5 days for HVS vs. 16.9 days for LVS (p=0.11). At multivariate analysis, risk factors for PF occurrence were LVS, soft pancreatic stump, small duct diameter, and longer operative time.   CONCLUSION Low-volume surgeons had a higher PF rate. However, this did not increase mortality and major morbidity rates probably because of the protective effect of high-volume hospital in improving patient rescue from life-threatening complications.
BACKGROUND Our aim was to estimate the prevalence of academic surgeons engaged in interdisciplinary collaborations and identify success factors and challenges to establishing these collaborations.   METHODS Chairs of surgery at US medical schools and selected hospitals and research institutes were surveyed in 2009 to determine the frequency, types, outcomes, and value of interdisciplinary collaborations; National Institutes of Health funding for these collaborations; major barriers and success factors; and departmental and institutional activities to promote collaborations.   RESULTS Eighty-two department chairs (58%) completed the survey. Ninety-three percent answered that their faculty engaged in interdisciplinary collaborations, and 71% stated that it was critical for their research success. On average, 27% of full-time MDs/MD-PhDs were involved in collaborations compared to 81% of PhDs within their departments. The most frequent collaborators included other clinical (43%) and basic science (24%) departments. Only 5% indicated that their most frequent collaborators were with other university programs, primarily with bioengineering or biomedical engineering. Collaborations resulted most often in publications, research opportunities for surgical residents, and National Institutes of Health funding. Pilot funding and active networking were key success factors. Longer chair tenure was statistically significantly associated with more success factors and fewer barriers to collaborations. Surgeons were much less likely to participate in institution-wide efforts than in departmental activities, although these activities were ongoing in more than two-thirds of institutions.   CONCLUSION Surgeons value collaborations as critical for their research success. Our survey indicates the potential for additional collaborations through more involvement with institutional efforts and with other university faculty. Stable, supportive department chairs are critical to establishing these activities.
BACKGROUND We used a cross-sectional e-mail survey to assess the prevalence of psychological morbidity across different surgical specialties and identify predictor variables of burnout in surgeons.   METHOD The survey was sent to 1971 surgeons from 127 National Health Service (NHS) hospital trusts across the United Kingdom. Burnout prevalence and mood were assessed using the Maslach Burnout Inventory-General Survey and Profile of Mood States (POMS), respectively. Demographic and POMS factors were investigated as predictors of burnout using linear and stepwise regression analyses.   RESULTS Responses to the survey were received from 342 surgeons (17% response rate). One-third of 313 respondents showed high mean levels of burnout on exhaustion (2.32; standard deviation [SD], 1.62) and cynicism (2.34; SD, 1.44) subscales. Some specialties worked significantly more hours per week (F[8, 252] = 2.89; P = .004), but burnout prevalence did not differ significantly between specialty, grade, age, gender, hours worked per week, or years spent in post. The number of years in specialty (棺 = -0.17; P = .003) independently predicted surgeons' scores on exhaustion. POMS factors significantly predicted burnout, where fatigue (棺 = 0.58; P < .001) was the best predictor of exhaustion scores, depression (棺 = 0.28; P < .001) the best predictor of cynicism, and vigor (棺 = 0.29; P < .001) the best predictor of professional efficacy. Management issues were cited as contributing to psychological morbidity.   CONCLUSION UK surgeons show high levels of cynicism and exhaustion burnout irrespective of their specialty, grade, or hours worked per week. Surgeons' mood profiles significantly predicted burnout, indicating the POMS could be used as part of an assessment for preventive interventions. NHS management and infrastructure are highlighted as influences on surgeons' psychological health.
AIM The aim of this study is an analysis of the changing authorship patterns and publishing habits encountered in papers published in the European Journal of Pediatric Surgery (EJPS) over the past 10 years. Furthermore, it seeks to anticipate the trends in the years ahead.   MATERIALS AND METHODS We conducted a retrospective review of articles published in the EJPS during a 10-year period (January 1, 2003-December 31, 2012). Each article was classified as an Original Report/Original Article (OR/OA) or as a Case Report/Case Gallery (CR/CG), and they were analyzed separately. For investigation of the percentage distribution of publications according to the number of authors per articles, papers were combined and into three groups (1-2, 3-5, and 6  authors). The analysis focused on whether the work was done by members of one institution, or in collaboration with other units of the same institution, or in collaboration with other national or multinational institutes.   RESULTS In the past 10 years, the EJPS published 996 articles (616 ORs/OAs, 380 CRs/CGs). The one and two authored publications (125) have not decreased, the three to five authored articles (552) changed minimally, whereas the number of 6  authored publications (319) has increased. Of 996 publications, 348 were from single institutes and 648 were written in collaboration with two or more other institutes. In addition, in this 10-year period, the number of multinational articles has increased significantly from 24 to 59.   CONCLUSION Increase in cooperation within and between institutions is a positive trend, aiming with the goal of improving quality of publications.
BACKGROUND Because of established attending-patient and family relationships and time constraints, residents are often excluded from the immediate postoperative conversation with family. Interpersonal and communication skills are a core competency, and the postoperative conversation is an opportunity to develop these skills. Our objective is to assess attitudes, experience, and comfort regarding resident participation during postoperative conversations with families.   MATERIALS AND METHODS Residents and attending surgeons in an academic surgery center were surveyed regarding resident involvement in the postoperative conversation with families. Paper surveys were administered anonymously. Nonparametric statistics compared responses.   RESULTS There were 45 survey respondents (23 residents, 22 attendings). All residents rated postoperative conversations with families, as 'important' or 'very important'. Residents reported being 'comfortable' or 'very comfortable' with postoperative conversations. However, on average, residents reported fewer than 10 postoperative conversation experiences per year. Feedback was received by <30% on postoperative communication skills, but 88% wanted feedback. Most attendings reported it is 'important' or 'very important' for residents to communicate well with families during postoperative conversations, but rated residents' performance as significantly lower than the residents' self-assessments (P혻< 0.001). Attendings on average were only 'somewhat comfortable' or 'moderately comfortable' with residents conducting postoperative conversations with families, and only 68% reported allowing residents to do so. When bad news was involved, only 27% allowed resident participation. Most attendings (86%) believed residents need more opportunities with postoperative conversations.   CONCLUSIONS Although most residents reported being comfortable with postoperative conversations, these survey results indicate that they have few opportunities. Developing a workshop on communication skills focused on the postoperative conversations with families may be beneficial.
BACKGROUND Sex disparity in the Program Director role has not been studied. The goal of this study is to evaluate the percentage of women in Chair and Program Director positions. We hypothesize that there is a higher percentage of women in the Program Director role than Chair role.   METHODS An Internet search identified Chairs, Program Directors, Associate Program Directors, and Division Chiefs. Statistical analysis compared percentages of women in these roles at all institutions, academic/community programs, and regions.   RESULTS There is higher female representation in the Program Director position than Chair position (P = .002) in General Surgery, Otolaryngology, and Orthopedics. More women are Associate Program Directors than Division Chiefs (23.6% vs 9.8%, P  .001). Academic and community programs are no different. In the West, a greater percentage of women are Chairs as compared with the other regions (P  .002).   CONCLUSIONS There are higher rates of women in Program Director position than Department Chair position. This discrepancy warrants further investigation.
BACKGROUND The transition from medical student to surgical intern is fraught with anxiety. We implemented a surgical intern survival skills curriculum to alleviate this through a series of lectures and interactive sessions. The purpose of this pilot study was to evaluate its effectiveness.   METHODS This was a prospective observational pilot study of our surgical intern survival skills curriculum, the components of which included professionalism, medical documentation, pharmacy highlights, radiographic interpretations, nutrition, and mock clinical pages. The participants completed pre-course and post-course surveys to assess their confidence levels in the elements addressed using a 5-point Likert scale (1 = unsatisfactory, 5 = excellent). A P value of less than .05 was considered significant.   RESULTS In 2009, 8 interns participated in the surgical intern survival skills curriculum. Fifty percent were female and their mean age was 27.5 짹 1.5 years. Of 33 elements assessed, interns rated themselves as more confident in 27 upon completion of the course.   CONCLUSIONS The implementation of a surgical intern survival skills curriculum significantly improved the confidence levels of general surgery interns and seemed to ease the transition from medical student to surgical intern.
AIM To determine if follow-up by consultant pediatric surgeons (CPS) affects morbidity due to incarceration (INC) in children with indirect inguinal hernia (IH).   METHODS We educate parents so they can identify possible INC and advise them to attend our emergency department anytime for immediate review by on-call CPS.   RESULTS We reviewed 3,493 cases of IH by grouping them according to age at diagnosis: neonatal (G1; n = 96), 2-3 months (G2; n = 331), 4-6 months (G3; n = 118), 7-12 months (G4; n = 193), and over 12 months (G5; n = 2,755). Data per group were: mean gestational age (weeks): 32.1, 38.0, 36.4, 37.4, 38.7; mean birth weight (g): 1,645, 2,736, 2,471, 2,769, 2,930; mean age at elective hernia repair (HR) (months): 11.3, 4.9, 10.1, 12.9, 56.5; mean weight at elective HR (kg): 6.8, 6.4, 7.3, 9.1, 17.4; mean duration from diagnosis to elective HR (months): 10.9, 3.1, 6.3, 3.6, 3.0; mean follow-up: 6.7 years. Overall, INC occurred in 203/3,493 during follow-up. Incidence per group was: G1: 4/96, G2: 62/331, G3: 6/118, G4: 47/193, G5: 84/2,755. All INC were reduced manually without complications. HR complications occurred in 7/3,493 (0.2%).   CONCLUSIONS With CPS follow-up, INC can be managed without morbidity, allowing elective HR to be performed later with fewer complications.
This paper discusses the definition, nature and origins of clinical errors including their prevention. The relationship between clinical errors and medical negligence is examined as are the characteristics of litigants and events that are the source of litigation. The pattern of malpractice claims in different specialties and settings is examined. Among hospitalized patients worldwide, 3-16% suffer injury as a result of medical intervention, the most common being the adverse effects of drugs. The frequency of adverse drug effects appears superficially to be higher in intensive care units and emergency departments but once rates have been corrected for volume of patients, comorbidity of conditions and number of drugs prescribed, the difference is not significant. It is concluded that probably no more than 1 in 7 adverse events in medicine result in a malpractice claim and the factors that predict that a patient will resort to litigation include a prior poor relationship with the clinician and the feeling that the patient is not being kept informed. Methods for preventing clinical errors are still in their infancy. The most promising include new technologies such as electronic prescribing systems, diagnostic and clinical decision-making aids and error-resistant systems.
BACKGROUND Realizing the trends toward minimally invasive procedures, the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) increased the requirements for laparoscopic procedures effective 2007 to 2008. Our purpose was to analyze the trend of laparoscopic versus open cases.   METHODS We analyzed national ACGME general surgery operative log program data for basic and advanced open and laparoscopic procedures performed by graduating surgical residents between academic years 1996 to 1997 and 2009 to 2010.   RESULTS From 1997 to 2010, the average number of procedures performed by graduating residents increased for appendectomies (36.5 to 59.3), cholecystectomies (90.9 to 112), hernia repairs (58.9 to 67.4), and colectomies (40.1 to 60.2). These increases have been accompanied by decreases in the percentage of open procedures for appendectomies (84% to 30%), cholecystectomies (24% to 9%), hernia repairs (90% to 70%), and colectomies (97% to 71%), which have resulted primarily from a decrease in open procedures (basic) or an increase in laparoscopic procedures (advanced).   CONCLUSIONS The rising number of laparoscopic procedures performed by surgical residents is associated with a drastic decrease in the number of basic open procedures. Although the number of open procedures is sufficient to meet ACGME requirements for now, this is an area of concern for the adequacy of training in the future.
BACKGROUND Breast cancer surgeons represent the first line of defense for many patients battling this disease. They often have the first contact to discuss treatment options with the patient after diagnosis. However, the potential impact of this consultation has evolved with the arrival of commercialized multigene prognostic and predictive tests that continue to reshape the landscape of breast cancer management, including modern surgical practice.   METHOD This review was compiled from peer-reviewed literature indexed in PubMed.   CONCLUSIONS The advent of genomic analysis has advanced the treatment and management of breast cancer toward the goal of personalized care. Therefore, the role of the surgeon now extends beyond extirpation of the tumor and includes an understanding of the biology of the disease as well as an appreciation of this new technology. Breast cancer surgeons should seize this opportunity to provide patients and colleagues with this information in an expeditious manner to optimize clinical outcomes.
According to the National Research Corporation, 1 in 5 Americans use social media sites to obtain healthcare information. Patients can easily access information on medical conditions and medical professionals; however physicians may not be aware of the nature and impact of this information.  All physicians must learn to use the Internet to their advantage and be acutely aware of the disadvantages. Surgeons are in a unique position because, unlike in the primary care setting, less time is spent developing a long-term relationship with the patient. In this literature review, we  discuss the impact of the Internet, social networking websites, and physician rating websites and make recommendations for surgeons about managing digital identity and maintaining professionalism.
BACKGROUND Hallux valgus and hallux rigidus are common conditions for which numerous operative interventions have been described in the literature. Various clinical and radiological measurements have been used to help grade severity and to guide treatment.   MATERIALS AND METHODS A survey was e-mailed to all members of the Australian Orthopaedic Association. Questions were asked regarding respondents' demographics as well as their preferred treatment for 3 separate cases of hallux valgus and hallux rigidus of varying severity. They were specifically asked about type of deformity correction and type of fixation. The responses were collected and statistically analyzed.   RESULTS The authors collected the answers of 454 respondents with a response rate of 36%. There was a disproportionately large percentage of respondents who were members of the Australian Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society. Preferred treatments were different for the 3 different cases. Older surgeons were more likely to use Chevron osteotomies, and Australian Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society members were more likely to use a scarf. Scarf osteotomy was preferred by more than 50% for the cases of moderate and severe hallux valgus, whereas first metatarsophalangeal joint fusion was preferred for the case with significant arthritic changes.   CONCLUSIONS There are significant associations between the surgeons' age and expertise and their training and their preferred operative intervention. Considerable differences were found in the practice of the general orthopaedic surgeons and the foot and ankle specialists. Despite the large number of surgical options available for hallux valgus, only a small number were preferred by the majority of surgeons. Although anecdotally aware that lesser deformity is treated with distal osteotomies and more severe deformity with a proximal osteotomy, the authors are unaware of any current literature that verifies this.
A task force for the American Society for Surgery of the Hand (ASSH) recently investigated the practice patterns, board certification, subspecialty certification status, and ASSH membership of hand surgeons after completion of fellowship training. A total of 37% of the fellowship graduates from 2000 to 2006 had not attained subspecialty certification for a variety of reasons. A smaller group of fellowship graduates obtained the subspecialty certification but had not become Active Members of the ASSH. Efforts to strengthen the hand surgeon community and best serve our patients should focus on evolving patterns in post fellowship choices that reflect practice type choices and generational changes.
The purpose of this study was to determine if there are differences in interventions (int) required and compliance (comp) to recommendations (rec) by medical and surgical services as determined by an antimicrobial stewardship program (ASP). Concurrently collected ASP data from January 2008 through May 2011 were evaluated to determine number of int required and response to int. Results for medical (med) and surgical (surg) services were compared. There were 2322 int, of which 1108 were for med and 1214 were for surg. Recs were as follows: 242 appropriate coverage (AC) med versus 212 AC surg and 866 selective pressure (SP) med and 1002 SP surg. Comp with recs was higher for med: AC: 90.5 per cent (219 of 242) med versus 82.1 per cent (174 of 212) surg (P = 0.0086) and SP: 81.1 per cent (702 of 866) med versus 69.5 per cent (696 of 1002) surg (P < 0.0001). Overall surgical comp with ASP recs was better for AC than for SP. Moreover, less than half (seven of 15) of the surgical subspecialties demonstrated a comp of 75 per cent or greater with SP recs with only one-fifth having a comp over 80 per cent. Surgical services demonstrate poor compliance with ASP recommendations; this is especially true for interventions targeting selective pressure. By identifying services that are less compliant, programs can target their educational efforts to improve outcomes.
Severe hand traumata have a significant impact on our health system and on insurance companies, respectively. It is estimated that 33% of all occupational injuries and 9% of all invalidity pensions are due to severe hand trauma. Unfortunately, these high numbers are not only due to the severity of the trauma but to organisational deficiencies. Usually, the patient is treated at the general surgical emergency in the first place and only then forwarded to a microsurgeon. This redirection increases the time that is required for the patient to finally arrive at an expert for hand surgery. On the one hand, this problem can be explained by the population's lack of awareness for distinguished experts for hand and microsurgery, on the other hand, the emergency network, or emergency doctors in particular are not well informed about where to take a patient with a severe hand trauma - clearly a problem of communication between the hospitals and the ambulance. It is possible to tackle this problem, but put participating hand trauma centres have to work hand in hand as a network and thus exploit synergy effects. The French system 'FESUM' is a good example for such a network and even comprises centres in Belgium and Switzerland. To improve the treatment of severe hand trauma, a similar alliance was initiated in Germany just recently. The pilot project 'Hand Trauma Alliance' (www.handverletzung.com) was started in April 2013 and currently comprises two hospitals within the region of upper Bavaria. The network provides hand trauma replantation service on a 24/7 basis and aims at shortening the way from the accident site to the fully qualified hand surgeon, to improve the therapy of severe hand injuries and to optimise acute patient care in general. In order to further increase the alliance's impact it is intended to extend the project's scope from regional to national coverage - nevertheless, such an endeavour can only be done in collaboration with the German Society for Hand Surgery (DGH). This article comprises 2 parts. First, the state-of-the-art of acute severe hand trauma care is summarised and explained. Subsequently, the above-mentioned pilot project is described in every detail, including positive effects but also barriers that still have to be overcome.
INTRODUCTION Preoperative estimation of intra-operative blood loss by both anaesthetist and operating surgeon is a criterion of the World Health Organization's surgical safety checklist. The checklist requires specific preoperative planning when anticipated blood loss is greater than 500 mL. The aim of this study was to assess the accuracy of surgeons and anaesthetists at predicting intra-operative blood loss.   METHODS A 6-week prospective study of intermediate and major operations in an academic medical centre was performed. An independent observer interviewed surgical and anaesthetic consultants and registrars, preoperatively asking each to predict expected blood loss in millilitre. Intra-operative blood loss was measured and compared with these predictions. Parameters including the use of anticoagulation and anti-platelet therapy as well as intra-operative hypothermia and hypotension were recorded.   RESULTS One hundred sixty-eight operations were included in the study, including 142 elective and 26 emergency operations. Blood loss was predicted to within 500 mL of measured blood loss in 89% of cases. Consultant surgeons tended to underestimate blood loss, doing so in 43% of all cases, while consultant anaesthetists were more likely to overestimate (60% of all operations). Twelve patients (7%) had underestimation of blood loss of more than 500 mL by both surgeon and anaesthetist. Thirty per cent (n = 6/20) of patients requiring transfusion of a blood product within 24 hours of surgery had blood loss underestimated by more than 500 mL by both surgeon and anaesthetist. There was no significant difference in prediction between patients on anti-platelet or anticoagulation therapy preoperatively and those not on the said therapies.   CONCLUSION Predicted intra-operative blood loss was within 500 mL of measured blood loss in 89% of operations. In 30% of patients who ultimately receive a blood transfusion, both the surgeon and anaesthetist significantly underestimate the risk of blood loss by greater than 500 mL. Theatre staff must be aware that 1 in 14 patients undergoing intermediate or major surgery will have an unexpected blood loss exceeding 500 mL and so robust policies to identify and manage such circumstances should be in place to improve patient safety.
BACKGROUND Joint programmes, as opposed to regionalisation of paediatric cardiac care, may improve outcomes while preserving accessibility. We determined the prevalence and nature of joint programmes.   METHODS We sent an online survey to 125 paediatric cardiac surgeons in the United States in November, 2009 querying the past or present existence of a joint programme, its mission, structure, function, and perceived success.   RESULTS A total of 65 surgeon responses from 65 institutions met the criteria for inclusion. Of the 65 institutions, 22 currently or previously conducted a joint programme. Compared with primary institutions, partner institutions were less often children's hospitals (p = 0.0004), had fewer paediatric beds (p = 0.005), and performed fewer cardiac cases (p = 0.03). Approximately 47% of partner hospitals performed fewer than 50 cases per year. The median distance range between hospitals was 41-60 miles, ranging from 5 to 1000 miles. Approximately 54% of partner hospitals had no surgeon working primarily on-site, and 31% of the programmes conducted joint conferences. Approximately 67% of the programmes limited the complexity of cases at the partner hospital, and 83% of the programmes had formal contracts between hospitals. Of the six programmes whose main mission was to increase referrals to the primary hospital, three were felt to have failed. Of the nine programmes whose mission was to increase regional quality, eight were felt to be successful.   CONCLUSION Joint programmes in paediatric cardiac surgery are common but are heterogeneous in structure and function. Programmes whose mission is to improve the quality of regional care seem more likely to succeed. Joint programmes may be a practical alternative to regionalisation to achieve better outcomes.
The introduction of the DRG (diagnosis-related groups) system as basis for reimbursement in the German health-care system has led to a mentality of quality orientation and verification of therapeutic results. An immediate result was the formation of medical 'centres' on rather different levels and consequently the inauguration of institutions, authorities, and organisations to review these centres. Finally, a range of certifications was installed in order to stratify the rather diverse aims of different centres. This review critically evaluates the current situation in the field of general and abdominal surgery in Germany.
INTRODUCTION Byzantine physicians (4th-7th and 8th-12th centuries A.D.), especially those interested in Surgery, developed a number of interesting concepts, views and opinions referring to the field now recognized as Oral and Cranio-maxillofacial Surgery and Pathology.   MATERIAL AND METHOD The original texts of Byzantine physicians, written in ancient Greek, and now preserved in the electronic platform Thesaurus Linguae Graecae, at the University of California, Irvine, CA, USA, were investigated in relation to Oral and Cranio-maxillofacial Surgery and Pathology.   RESULTS The most eminent physicians of the Early (4th-7th century A.D.) and Middle (8th-12th century A.D.) Byzantine Period, in particular Oribasius Pergamenus, A챘tius Amidenus, Alexander Trallianus, Theophilus Protospatharius, Paulus Aegineta, Meletius Monachos, and Leo Medicus, in their works deal with topographic and surgical anatomy of the head and neck, and a large list of related topics, including dentoalveolar surgery, oral and cervicofacial infections, trauma of viscerocranium and neurocranium as well as the biomechanics of traumatic brain injuries, temporomandibular joints dysfunction as a consequence of mandibular dislocation, surgical oncology and reconstructive surgery of the head and neck, oral pathology, surgical pathology of salivary glands, therapeutic management of facial nerve dysfunction, preprosthetic surgery, craniofacial surgery, and deformities of the facial skeleton involving anthropologic and craniometric observations. Clinical examination of patients presenting corresponding functional and esthetic problems is considered, using recognizable orthodontic and orthognathic surgical approaches. Finally, specific bandages of the head and neck are described, for treating traumatic injuries of the viscerocranium and neurocranium, diastasis of the cranial sutures, dislocations of the mandible (unilateral and bilateral), as well as inflammatory diseases of the parotids and the neck.   CONCLUSIONS Byzantine physicians had been particularly interested in various subjects of the mouth, jaws, face, and head and neck in general, in the frame of course of their general surgery practice.
BACKGROUND Judging depth is important in surgery. Although there are several cues that permit depth perception, stereoacuity has been singled out as a possible predictor of surgical ability. However, it is not clear whether high-grade stereoacuity is necessary for a career in surgery. To help answer this, we aimed to evaluate stereoacuities in practising surgeons across a range of surgical specialities.   METHODS We recorded stereoacuity values on 66 surgeons working at a London teaching hospital using three standard stereotests: Titmus, TNO and Frisby. There were 36 Trainees and 30 Consultants, covering 12 surgical specialities.   RESULTS Median stereoacuities (with range) for the whole group were: 40혻s arc on Titmus (40-800), 30혻s arc on TNO (15-480) and 20혻s arc on Frisby (20-600). Four surgeons had no recordable stereoacuity on TNO, and one was also unrecordable on Titmus. Three of these four were Consultants. Depending on the test used, high-grade stereopsis was found in 74%-83% of surgeons while reduced stereopsis was found in 2%-14% of surgeons.   CONCLUSION While we found that most surgeons in current NHS practice have high-grade stereoacuity, there are also surgeons with reduced stereopsis and some with no stereopsis. The findings do not therefore support the assertion that high-grade stereopsis is a universal requirement for a career in surgery. It would be difficult to justify setting a stereoacuity criterion for entrance into a surgical training programme.
OBJECTIVE To assess worldwide trends in volume and methodological quality of published surgical randomized controlled trials (RCTs) over the past decade.   BACKGROUND Randomized controlled trials are essential for clinical decision making. It has repeatedly been suggested that surgical RCTs are scarce and of mediocre quality.   METHODS We systematically searched PubMed for surgical RCTs published in 1999 and 2009. Characteristics and risks of bias were extracted. Trials where compared between study years and geographical regions. Primary outcome was 'low risk of bias,' defined by all of the following: adequate allocation generation and concealment, intention-to-treat analysis, and adequate dropout handling.   RESULTS The volume of published surgical RCTs increased by 50%, from 300 in 1999 to 450 in 2009. Volume increased in Europe (27% increase), Asia/Oceania (160% increase), and Africa/South America (416% increase) but decreased in North America (23% decrease), although the United States remained the country with the highest number of published RCTs. In 2009, methodological quality of surgical trials improved in terms of sample size calculation, adequate generation of randomization sequence, concealment of randomization sequence, and use of intention-to-treat analysis as compared with 1999 (P < 0.001 for all). The proportion of low risk of bias trials increased from 6% to 14% (prevalence ratio 2.59; 95% confidence interval 1.55-4.32). In 2009, the highest proportion of low risk of bias trials was from Europe (23%), whereas the lowest was from Asia/Oceania (5%).   CONCLUSIONS Volume and quality of surgical RCTs improved although striking differences exist between continents and countries. Structured education in trial methodology, enforced adherence to existing guidelines, and improved research infrastructure may guide further improvements.
OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS Patients are increasingly using the Internet as a source of information on medical conditions. Because the average American adult reads at a 7th- to 8th-grade level, the National Institutes of Health recommend that patient education material be written between a 4th- and 6th-grade level. In this study, we assess and compare the readability of patient education materials on major surgical subspecialty Web sites relative to otolaryngology.   STUDY DESIGN Descriptive and correlational design.   METHODS Patient education materials from 14 major surgical subspecialty Web sites (American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons, American Association of Endocrine Surgeons, American Society of General Surgeons, American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery, American Association of Neurological Surgeons, American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, American Academy of Ophthalmology, American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons, American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, American Pediatric Surgical Association, American Society of Plastic Surgeons, Society for Thoracic Surgeons, and American Urological Association) were downloaded and assessed for their level of readability using 10 widely accepted readability scales.   RESULTS The readability level of patient education material from all surgical subspecialties was uniformly too high. Average readability levels across all subspecialties ranged from the 10th- to 15th-grade level.   CONCLUSIONS Otolaryngology and other surgical subspecialties Web sites have patient education material written at an education level that the average American may not be able to understand. To reach a broader population of patients, it might be necessary to rewrite patient education material at a more appropriate level.   LEVEL OF EVIDENCE N/A.
A quiet revolution in American surgery has occurred over the past 10-15 years, with the emergence of acute care surgery as a true specialty, and apparently the heir to general surgery. This new paradigm traces its beginning to certain core safety net hospitals in the U.S., such as Denver Health Medical Center, San Fancisco General Hospital, Detroit Receiving Hospital, and Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta, and has now extended its foothold to most U.S. academic institutions as well. The discipline of acute care surgery represents a fusion of trauma surgery, surgical critical care, and emergency surgery. although the actual surgical responsibilities of the ACS surgeon may vary, depending on local institutional needs, the core principles remain the same. The new specialty appears to have broad appeal not only to the departments in which they serve, but to resident trainees and hospital administration as well. While a number of challenges need to be addressed before adaption of this system to Israel, the new paradigm appears to have potential for serving Israeli surgery in the future. In summary, there is much to a name. Just as the guardian angel of Aisov gave the new name 'Israel' to the biblical patriarch Jacob to signify that he had been evaluated to a new level--'a prince in the eye of G-d and man', 'Acute Care Surgery' appears poised to transform General Surgery to a new level for the next generation of surgeons.
OBJECTIVE This study explores how surgeons define innovation, critically examines and evaluates these views, and uses the findings to develop practical criteria for identifying surgical innovation for ethical and regulatory purposes.   BACKGROUND Surgical innovation is crucial for progress in surgery, but can be harmful to patients and difficult to identify and therefore support appropriately. Current attempts to define surgical innovation lack precision, and do not give enough guidance to identify innovations in practice. This study is the first to give an account of surgeons' own views about defining innovation.   METHODS This qualitative study involved interviews with 18 Australian surgeons. Participants provided examples of innovation and distinguished innovation from variations in practice and from research. Data were collected using audio-recorded semistructured interviews. The data were coded using a template and analyzed to develop a thematic account of innovative surgery in practice.   RESULTS There was no uniform view about innovation, but participants identified 5 features of surgical innovation that distinguish it from variations: newness or novelty; degree of change; level of risk; impact; and requiring formal processes. There was no agreement on the distinction between innovation and research.   CONCLUSIONS Drawing on surgeons' own views is important for the development of a practical definition of surgical innovation. We have used a critical analysis of surgeons' own views as the basis for defining the core features of innovation. A precise definition of innovation will assist surgeons to identify and manage innovation and thereby enhance patient safety.
We will discuss a new initiative of the American College of Surgeons and the American Pediatric Surgical Association to prospectively define optimal resource standards for children's surgical care.
BACKGROUND There is significant lack of information regarding the Canadian pediatric surgery workforce.   METHODS An IRB-approved survey aimed at assessing workforce issues was administered to pediatric surgeons and pediatric surgery chiefs in Canada in 2012.   RESULTS The survey was completed by 98% of practicing surgeons and 13 of the 18 division chiefs. Only 6% of surgeons are older than 60 years, and only a fifth anticipate retirement over the next decade. The workforce is stable, with 82% of surgeons unlikely to change current positions. Surgical volume showed essentially no growth during the 5-year period 2006-2010. The majority of surgeons felt they were performing the right number or too few cases and anticipated minimal or no future growth in their individual practices or that of their group. Based on anticipated vacancies, the best estimate is a need for 20 new pediatric surgeons over the next decade. This need is significantly surpassed by the current output from the Canadian training programs.   CONCLUSIONS The Canadian pediatric surgery workforce is currently saturated. The mismatch between the number of graduating trainees and the available positions over the next decade has significant repercussions for current surgery and pediatric surgery residents wishing to practice in Canada.
PURPOSE The pediatric NSQIP program is in the early stages of facilitated surgical quality improvement for children. The objective of this study is to describe the initial experience of the first Canadian Children's Hospital participant in this program.   METHOD Randomly sampled surgical cases from the 'included' case list were abstracted into the ACS-NSQIP database. These surgical procedure-specific data incorporate patient risk factors, intraoperative details, and 30 day outcomes to generate annual reports which provide hierarchical ranking of participant hospitals according to their risk-adjusted outcomes.   RESULTS Our first risk-adjusted report identified local improvement opportunities based on our rates of surgical site infection (SSI) and urinary tract infection (UTI). We developed and implemented an engagement strategy for our stakeholders, performed literature reviews to identify practice variation, and conducted case control studies to understand local risk factors for our SSI/UTI occurrences. We have begun quality improvement activities targeting reduction in rates of SSI and UTI with our general surgery division and ward nurses, respectively.   CONCLUSIONS The NSQIP pediatric program provides high quality outcome data that can be used in support of quality improvement. This process requires multidisciplinary teamwork, systematic stakeholder engagement, clinical research methods and process improvement through engagement and culture change.
PURPOSE Abdominal radiographs are frequently employed in the surveillance of patients with necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC), with typical findings well described. Clinicians interpret and act upon these films at different intervals, however, and inter-rater agreement has not been evaluated to date.   METHODS Thirty abdominal radiographs of premature infants were distributed to attending radiologists (4), pediatric surgeons (4), and trainees (4), who evaluated for findings of NEC from a list of eight potential choices (1=normal, 8=perforation). Fleiss's Kappa (FK) was used to evaluate concordance between multiple raters with 0-0.2=slight association and 0.8-1=almost perfect agreement.   RESULTS Practicing surgeons had an FK of 0.77 overall (95% CI: 0.67-0.87), but demonstrated poor agreement when evaluating decubitus films (FK: 0.39, 95% CI:0.12-0.65). Radiologists had excellent inter-rater agreement (FK: 0.81, 95% CI: 0.74-0.88), but had only modest agreement with surgeons (FK: 0.59, 95% CI: 0.56-0.63) and poor agreement for decubitus films (FK: 0.15, 95% CI: 0.47-0.26). Surgical and radiology trainees had fair agreement with their respective attendings (0.60, 95% CI: 0.55-0.65 and 0.64, 95% CI: 0.60-0.69, respectively).   CONCLUSIONS While inter-rater agreement was good-excellent among attending staff, it was only moderate between radiologists and surgeons and between trainees and their attendings. This highlights the importance of inter-disciplinary and hierarchical communication to optimize clinical decision-making. Decubitus films may be of limited value in evaluating patients with NEC.
BACKGROUND Construct validity for the pediatric laparoscopic surgery (PLS) simulator has been established through a scoring system based on time and precision. We describe the development and initial validation of motion analysis to teach and assess skills related to pediatric minimal access surgery (MAS).   METHODS Participants were asked to perform a standardized intracorporeal suturing task. They were classified as novices, intermediates, and experts. Motion in the four degrees of freedom available during traditional MAS (PITCH, YAW, ROLL and SURGE) was assessed using range, velocity, and acceleration.   RESULTS Analysis of motion allowed discrimination between the 75 participants according to level of expertise. The most discriminating motion parameter was the acceleration in performing the ROLL (pronation/supination) with values of 30짹27 for novices, 15짹5 for intermediates, and 3.7짹3 for experts (p<0.001).   CONCLUSIONS Tracking and analyzing the motion of instruments within the PLS simulator allow discrimination between novices, intermediates, and experts, thus establishing construct validity. Further development may establish motion analysis as a useful 'real time' modality to teach and assess MAS skills.
BACKGROUND/PURPOSE A uniquely Ugandan method of holding surgical 'camps' has been one means to deal with the volume of patients needing surgery and provides opportunities for global partnership.   METHODS We describe an evolved partnership between pediatric surgeons in Uganda and Canada wherein Pediatric Surgical Camps were organized by the Ugandans with team participation from Canadians. The camp goals were to provide pediatric surgical and anesthetic service and education and to foster collaboration as a way forward to assist Ugandan health delivery.   RESULTS Three camps were held in Uganda in 2008, 2011, and 2013. A total of 677 children were served through a range of operations from hernia repair to more complex surgery. The educational mandate was achieved through the involvement of 10 Canadian trainees, 20 Ugandan trainees in surgery and anesthesia, and numerous medical students. Formal educational sessions were held. The collaborative mandate was manifest in relationship building, an understanding of Ugandan health care, research projects completed, agreement on future camps, and a proposal for a Canadian-Ugandan pediatric surgery teaching alliance.   CONCLUSION Pediatric Surgical Camps founded on global partnerships with goals of service, education, and collaboration can be one way forward to improve pediatric surgery access and expertise globally.
BACKGROUND The CanMEDS competency 'scholar' encompasses the creation, dissemination, application, and translation of medical knowledge. We hypothesize that a structured journal club (JC) for pediatric surgical trainees would meet these objectives in an enjoyable and long-lasting manner.   METHODS A JC involving two pediatric surgery training programs was created with each session focusing on a specific study design. Pre-tests/post-tests were administered before/after each session with durability of learning assessed during the following session. Metrics analyzed included participant satisfaction and an appraisal of evidence-based medicine (EBM) principals. Test results were analyzed using the paired T-test with p<0.05 considered significant.   RESULTS On average, 14 participants attended each session, with all trainees present (4). While participants believed they understood EBM principles, 40% were unfamiliar with question formulation, 48% were unfamiliar with critical appraisal tools, and 60% had not appraised an article within the previous year. Pre-test to post-test comparison yielded an improvement in mean score (20=perfect score): 10.8 to 16.9, p<0.01. Measures of participant satisfaction were uniformly positive.   CONCLUSION A structured Pediatric Surgery Journal Club addresses scholarly training objectives in a highly satisfactory manner and yields durable learning. A web-based curriculum based on this model could serve as an important educational tool for trainees and attending staff alike.
The United States' healthcare system is facing unprecedented pressures: the healthcare cost curve is not sustainable while the bar of standards and expectations for the quality of care continues to rise. Systems committed to the surgical treatment of children will likely require changes and reorganization. Regardless of these mounting pressures, hospitals must remain focused on providing the best possible care to each child at every encounter. Available clinical expertise and hospital resources should be optimized to match the complexity of the treated condition. Although precise criteria are lacking, there is a growing consensus that the optimal combination of clinical experience and hospital resources must be defined, and efforts toward this goal have been supported by the Regents of the American College of Surgeons, the members of the American Pediatric Surgical Association, and the Society for Pediatric Anesthesia (SPA) Board of Directors. The topic of optimizing outcomes and the discussion of the concepts involved have unfortunately become divisive. Our goals, therefore, are 1) to provide a review of the literature that can provide context for the discussion of regionalization, volume, and optimal resources and promote mutual understanding of these important terms, 2) to review the evidence that has been published to date in pediatric surgery associated with regionalization, volume, and resource, 3) to focus on a specific resource (anesthesia), and the association that this may have with outcomes, and 4) to provide a framework for future research and policy efforts.
There is a wide variability in the management of acute cholecystitis. A survey among the members of the Spanish Association of Surgeons (AEC) analyzed the preferences of Spanish surgeons for its surgical management. The majority of the 771 responders didn't declare any subspecialty (41.6%), 21% were HPB surgeons, followed by colorectal and upper-GI specialities. Early cholecystectomy during the first admission is the preferred method of management of 92.3% of surgeons, but only 42.7% succeed in adopting this practice. The most frequent reasons for changing their preferred practice were: Patients not fit for surgery (43.6%) and lack of availability of emergency operating room (35.2%). A total of 88.9% perform surgery laparoscopically. The majority of AEC surgeons advise index admission cholecystectomy for acute cholecystitis, although only half of them succeed in its actual implementation. There is room for improvement in the management of acute cholecystitis in Spanish hospitals.
GOAL The aim of this study was to objectively analyze the characteristics of abstracts submitted to the annual joint congress of the SFCD (French Society of Digestive Surgery) and the ACBHT (Association of Hepato-biliary Surgery and Transplantation), in order to identify factors associated with acceptance for presentation at the Congress and of subsequent publication in a scientific journal.   MATERIAL AND METHODS All abstracts submitted between 2005 and 2012 were retrospectively reviewed. Univariate and multivariate analysis were perfomed to determine the factors associated with acceptance for presentation at the Congress and/or for subsequent publication in the medical literature (based on PubMed).   RESULTS The number of submissions increased from 128 in 2005 to 223 in 2012, i.e., an increase of 74.2%. Among the 1352 abstracts, 1106 (81.8%) were retrospective studies while only 15 (1.1%) were randomized controlled trials. The two principal themes were hepato-bilio-pancreatic surgery in 606 studies (44.8%) and colorectal surgery in 364 studies (26.9%). The overall rate of acceptance for the Congress was 49.9%, of which 21.0% were accepted for oral presentation. In multivariate analysis, the factors associated with acceptance for oral presentation were the geographic origin of the study (P<0.001), studies including >100 patients (P=0.01), and the prospective nature of the study (P=0.045). The rate of subsequent publication was 61.9% for studies accepted for oral presentation, 39.7% for studies accepted for poster presentation, and 25.9% for studies that were not accepted (P<0.001). In multivariate analysis, the factors associated with subsequent publication were geographic origin of the study (P=0.003), the experimental character of the study (P<0.001), and acceptance for presentation at the Congress (P<0.001).   CONCLUSION Only half of the studies submitted for presentation at the annual Congress of the SFCD/ACBHT are accepted; this nevertheless constitutes a quality measure associated with nearly a 50% chance of subsequent publication in the medical literature.
BACKGROUND The purpose of this article was to conduct a gap analysis of important team constructs that may be absent in widely used team assessments.   METHODS AND MATERIALS Two assessment tools with known validity evidence (1) Non-Technical Skills for Surgeons (NOTSS) and (2) the Cannon-Bowers Scale were used to evaluate 11 teams of surgical residents (n혻=혻33) performing simulated laparoscopic hernia repairs. Faculty raters' scores were used to compare the surveys and assess validity and reliability. Raters' detailed observation notes were used to indicate important behavioral constructs that were missing from the team rating scales.   RESULTS When assessing inter-item correlations (reliability) four of five NOTSS' scale items had significant correlations (r혻=혻0.9-1.0, P혻<혻0.05) with the Cannon-Bowers items. While the correlations were only noted for three of six Cannon-Bowers items, in each instance the same four of five NOTSS items correlated with the three Cannon-Bowers items, thus providing further validity evidence for both scales. When evaluating the gap, key emerging themes included the need to focus on critical team errors, individual team member contributions, task performance, and overall team performance. These gaps, plus items from the NOTSS and Cannon-Bowers scales, were incorporated into a new rating scale.   CONCLUSIONS Despite continued evidence of validity and reliability, there were several behavioral constructs that were not represented when using the NOTSS and Cannon-Bowers scales. Critical team errors, individual team member contributions, task performance, and overall team performance appear important in our ability to understand teams and teamwork.
Vascular surgery is evolving from being a sub-specialty of general surgery to becoming a separate surgical specialty. This will have implications in terms of the training, skill-set and workload of surgeons working in the NHS. There are implications for the military too, as a deploying trauma team must have both general and vascular surgical capabilities. This article explores the reasons for the changes occurring and discusses the wider implications.
BACKGROUND Academic surgery requires competence in research, teaching, and patient care. Because of the increasing complexity of both surgical research and clinical surgery, and additional skills necessary for adequate patient care, including economics, management, and organization, it becomes more and more difficult to provide an attractive education for surgeon-scientists. This has resulted in a dramatic decline in the number of surgeon-scientists in the past and alarms us to systematically restructure our research training system.   DISCUSSION We herein introduce a program involving the clinical departments of surgery, trauma surgery, and cardiac-thoracic surgery as well as a surgical research institution. The program allows the clinical departments to sharpen their overall research profile and facilitates the establishment of competent working groups, guaranteeing long-term research activities on a high scientific level. The program involves both surgical residents and medical students, who will represent our future generation of academic surgeons, ensuring the survival of the surgeon-scientist.
CONTEXT Non-technical skills are important behavioural aspects that a urologist must be fully competent at to minimise harm to patients. The majority of surgical errors are now known to be due to errors in judgment and decision making as opposed to the technical aspects of the craft.   EVIDENCE ACQUISITION The authors reviewed the published literature regarding decision-making theory and in practice related to urology as well as the current tools available to assess decision-making skills. Limitations include limited number of studies, and the available studies are of low quality.   EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS Decision making is the psychological process of choosing between alternative courses of action. In the surgical environment, this can often be a complex balance of benefit and risk within a variable time frame and dynamic setting. In recent years, the emphasis of new surgical curriculums has shifted towards non-technical surgical skills; however, the assessment tools in place are far from objective, reliable and valid. Surgical simulators and video-assisted questionnaires are useful methods for appraisal of trainees.   CONCLUSION Well-designed, robust and validated tools need to be implemented in training and assessment of decision-making skills in urology. Patient safety can only be ensured when safe and effective decisions are made.
PURPOSE Previous data suggest that formal, structured preparation might improve knowledge and skills of senior medical students (SMSs) as they transition to surgical residency. However, subsequent impact on clinical performance has not been demonstrated.   METHOD The authors developed a comprehensive course for SMSs entering surgical residencies and studied the impact of the course on the subsequent performance of 2010 graduates (n = 22) compared with matched peers (16 nonparticipant controls at authors' home institution and 24 nonparticipant peer controls at outside institutions; total n = 62). Through pre- and postcourse surveys, knowledge tests, and technical examinations, they measured confidence and skill acquisition in 32 specific, job-related tasks. They followed participants and matched peers into internship and collected performance evaluations from supervising senior residents to determine whether course graduates would display performance advantages in these same tasks. The authors used t tests for all comparisons, 慣 = 0.05.   RESULTS Participants demonstrated marked improvement in task-specific confidence in all 32 tasks from course beginning to end, with improved scores on written and technical skill examinations. Further, course participants outperformed peers in all 32 tasks in July, with their performance advantage predictably dissipating into the third month of residency. There was a marked correlation between confidence and competence in all tasks.   CONCLUSIONS Competency-based preparation for surgical internship resulted in objective gains in task-specific confidence and test performance at course conclusion, translating to improved performance and better patient care upon residency matriculation. These data emphasize the significant impact of formally preparing SMSs before graduation.
Epilepsy is a common childhood condition associated with a considerable medical and psychosocial burden. Children in whom medical treatment fails to reduce seizure burden represent an especially vulnerable patient population because prolonged, uncontrolled seizures are associated with poor developmental and neurocognitive outcomes. Surgical treatment in the form of cortical resection, functional disconnection, or neuromodulation may alleviate or significantly reduce the disease burden for a subset of these patients. However, there remains a dichotomy between the perceived benefits of surgery and the implementation of surgical strategies in the management of medically intractable epilepsy. The current paper presents an analysis of the bioethical implications of existing inequities in access to pediatric epilepsy surgery that result from inconsistent referral practices and discrepant evaluation techniques. The authors provide a basic bioethical framework composed of 5 primary expectations to inform public, institutional, and personal policies toward the provision of epilepsy surgery to afflicted children.
BACKGROUND Most general thoracic operations in the United States are performed by general surgeons. Results obtained by those identified as general surgeons are often compared with those identified as thoracic surgeons.   METHODS We interrogated the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Project database over a 5-year period to compare outcomes in patients who underwent similar operations by surgeons identified as either thoracic surgeons or general surgeons. We employed propensity-score matching to minimize confounding when estimating the effect of surgeon identity on postoperative outcomes.   RESULTS During the study period, thoracic surgeons performed 3,263 major pulmonary or esophageal operations, and general surgeons performed 15,057 similar operations. Compared with patients operated on by general surgeons, patients operated on by thoracic surgeons had significant excess multivariate comorbidities, including insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, concurrent pneumonia, congestive heart failure, previous cardiac surgery, dialysis-dependent renal failure, disseminated cancer, prior sepsis, and previous operation within 30 days. Likewise, patients in highest risk categories had operations performed by thoracic surgeons more commonly than by general surgeons. Unadjusted comparisons for mortality and serious morbidity showed significantly worse mortality and pulmonary complications in patients operated on by thoracic surgeons. However, with propensity matching according to surgeon type, thoracic surgeons had significantly fewer serious adverse outcomes compared with general surgeons, and this decreased morbidity occurred in a higher risk cohort.   CONCLUSIONS Our results show that patients operated on by thoracic surgeons have higher acuity compared with patients operated on by general surgeons. When patients are matched for comorbidities and serious preoperative risk factors, thoracic surgeons have improved outcomes, especially with regard to infectious complications and composite morbidity.